Deluxe Pacman 2  Development Journal
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


DEC 4, 2009 @ 1:12pm
--------------------
	I plan on making the game completely platform independent.  The first game was like that, but that was more an unintentional side effect from using Allegro game programming library to make it with.  I don't like how Allegro has changed so I have decided to drop it in favour of SDL.  SDL is also a well known platform independent library which I can easily combine with OpenGL if needed.
	I am currently reading a few tutorials on SDL game programming to get a feel for how to use it.  It seems fairly easy to learn so far, hopefully the learning process won't be too painful and I'll be able to get busy programming the actual game as soon as possible.


DEC 5, 2009 @ 10:27am
---------------------
	I am still reading over some SDL tutorials.  The more I read, the more excited I get about programming this game using it.  It seems to be both simple and powerful all at the same time.
	I also want to use C++ classes this time around.  I want to take my time and do this right.  Organize data properly, use classes and make sure it is all completely portable so it can be compiled for any operating system.  It should be fairly easy to accomplish this all with SDL and end up with a nice game.
	It will take a little extra planning I think, but should be worth it.  I'll probably start with creating a player class for the main player. I'm not sure what the name of the enemies will be.  Maybe "bullies".
	I also have some ideas for levels.  Rather than just the simple coloured lines, I could have 3D pre-rendered walls and floors.  Make levels look like you're traveling through a house, or other buildings.  Perhaps different levels could look like different locations.
	I still like the idea of having to find a key, and then use it on a door/keyhole or whatever in order to complete the level. I could also make this something like a combination of Pacman and Berzerk, where you're an actual man/woman (perhaps make the gender of the player selectable!) being chased by robots like in Berzerk, but have things to collect like in Pacman, like memory sticks, floppy disks.... CD/DVD ROMs would be good as they're round like pills.  Instead of halls filled with the ROMs, there could be ROMs in select rooms.  Once you get them all a key would be revealed which opens a door.  OR... as you collect the ROM disks, one of them would contain information about where the key is, and the key would then be revealed... OR... one of the CD-ROMs/DVDs would be the key, you then use it in a computer which would then cause the computer to release the locks on the door and you would go through the door to exit and complete the level... hmmm, I may scrap the whole pacman style idea totally and release this as a totally new, and original game... the name may change again, I'm not sure.


DEC 6, 2009 @ 6:20pm
--------------------
	Done more reading SDL tutorials as well as a few articles on game programming and design etc.  I got to thinking about possibly adding in achievements to this game.  They seem to be popular in games these days and could be fun.  I'll think on this further.  I want to start a design document of some sort soon.  I am anxious to dive right in and and start programming but past experience has taught me to pace myself and plan this out carefully to avoid problems.


JAN 8, 2010 @ 7:53pm
--------------------
	Decided to start working on the graphics for the game.  I actually started working on them the other night.  I done all the pills and capsules by rendering 3D versions with TrueSpace 6.6.  I also did the "Emo" main character (name subject to change) the same way.  I started on the lines, but had many problems working with TrueSpace 6.6 so I decided to re-install TrueSpace 3 and it went much better.  When they add in lots of new fancy features to software they often make the simpler tasks more confusing.  TrueSpace 3 done what I wanted just fine and I ended up getting more done.
	Allegro v4.4 was released.  I may shelve the idea of using SDL for this and go back to Allegro. SDL looks pretty easy to use, but I am so used to Allegro I may stick with it just to speed development time along.  I would like to get this done ASAP then maybe I will start something totally new using SDL once this is completed.  We'll see.  I haven't started the programming yet so I may yet change my mind again.


DEC 21, 2010 @ 10:15am
----------------------
	Time flies!  Wow, I never realized it's been a year since I first started this document.  My interest in this game comes and goes.  I have completed quite a bit in the graphics over the past year.  I have all new line sets, quite a few of them in fact.  3D Rendered lines turned out to be more of a pain in the buttocks than I expected so I shelved that idea, stuck with the 3D rendered pills and dots and used Tile Studio (a free program for creating 2D tile based graphics) to create my lines by hand.  I am pleased with what I created with it, it's quite a nice little program.  I came up with some ideas for the game like being able to select a separate background tile as well as the foreground lines.  You would just select one tile for now that would be used as the background for all the lines in the level.  The level size will be 23x17 on an 800x600 screen.  I'm still really trying to push myself to finish this new version but I am having problems feeling motivated.  Time will tell.


FEB 22, 2011 @2:37pm
---------------------
	I changed compiler.  I finally switched from DEV-C++ which hasn't been supported for many years now, to CodeBlocks.  CodeBlocks is similar and has some of the same programmers that worked on DEV-C++.  It can read DEV-C++ projects and has a similar look, but is far more functional and like DEV-C++, it's free as well.  Allegro was recently updated to version 5.  Allegro 5 has been in beta for a while, and has been worked on since 2002, but a release version is finally out and let me tell you, it is AWESOME.  I'll be converting any code I have to Allegro 5 code, which will make this a MUCH MORE Windows friendly program.  I also updated my compiler settings so that it compiles my code using the C99 standard (standard C, I'm not much for C++ programming yet).  C99 uses some things that were developed for C++ like the // comments, declaring variables anywhere in your code instead of only at the beginning of functions, and is a little stricter in some areas which is good.  Now that Allegro 5 is officially released, I think I'll start working on this project harder.


FEB 25, 2011 @4:11pm
--------------------
	Done more working getting this project started. I'm still trying to decide on whether to stick with C, or actually make this a C++ project with classes etc.  It would be nice to finally dive into C++ and give it a go.  Games do tend to go nicely with C++ and object oriented programming.  I'm also thinking that with C++ maybe future bug fixes and improvements might possibly be easier?  I may try out a simple test project, maybe make a simple arcade style game in C++ and see how that goes so I can get a feel for it and whether I would like it.  I'm not naive, I get the feeling I could be in for some headaches learning C++, if so, I'll just stick to C (using the C99 standard seems like a good bet).


MAR 2, 2011 @5:01pm
-------------------
	Still not much done in the way of programming.  I spent some time writing notes on how the level editor would be, like a drawing mode where you simply draw the lines rather than having to click each piece.  Starting positions for the player, enemies and pickups could be set.  Pickup starting position would be optional and if it isn't set than the game would place them randomly on the level.  I want to put much more thought into exactly what I'll need to put in the editor and how the levels will be laid out before I start programming so that I have everything well planned out.
   

June 21, 2012
-------------
@2:23PM (no version)
   I started work on the next version of this game last week. It's been slow going with health and financial problems nagging at me, my motivation is not very high, but I am trudging along.
   I have started on the editor, that is always the first thing that needs to be made so I can establish what information the levels will contain and create a level to test the game with.  I started by creating some graphics for it, buttons for the editor and the game's main menu.  I am now using DLG, a nice dialog editor to create the editor's interface.  I am not sure that I want to use dialogs, I'm not crazy on how they look, but it allows me to visualize the layout of the editor and get some numbers down on where everything will be on screen.  It's starting to look pretty good actually, I'm so tempted just to use the dialogs, but that would be lazy.  I want to polish this project up and make it look really professional.  I will probably write my own interface functions using my new button graphics for them.  I will probably create some different styles of buttons for use with this, switches maybe and small round push buttons, maybe make the interface look really mechanical.  Hmmm...


June 27, 2012
-------------
@1:08PM (no version)
   I've been working on the game on and off for the past week or so.  Mainly working on design aspects of the level editor, what all information the levels will need to have.  I have also been working on some new graphics and experimenting with programming the game engine with Allegro 5 and C++, checking out some of Allegro 5s new features like Truetype fonts (which are awesome!), PNG and JPG support, loading data from ZIP files, OGG music (OGG files are almost identical to MP3s except they're better quality and you don't have to pay a license fee to anyone to use them, Unreal Tournament used them for music), all the tools anyone needs are freely available online to make OGG files.  It's also event driven and made to play nice with other programs that might be running at the same time.  I'm getting all excited about this version now.  I also finally took the time to read up on the basics of Windows programming, that is, Windows specific (Allegro is cross platform so I never had a need to know this) programming. I learned a lot.  I may never need to use this information, but it's very important to know and has really enlightened me as to how Windows software works, it's quite fascinating to be honest, and a lot simpler than one might think once you understand the mechanics.  One important thing to understand in Windows is that EVERYTHING is a window!  Even simple things like buttons are their own window!  I didn't know this before, but it makes it much easier to deal with when you understand how it all works. 
   I came up with an idea today, after trying to help someone who has had problems running my old game and that is to add in an option for people to use lower resolution graphics to play the game.  People who might have less memory and other resources available could benefit from this. I could make a second data file with alternate graphics, sounds etc... sounds could use a lower frequency to make the files smaller, graphics possibly higher compression and lower resolutions that would be stretched to fit.    


June 28, 2012
-------------
@2:15PM (no version)
   Okay, I was going to go with the name "Emo" for the game, but I noticed games similar were using it and I don't want people thinking this game is about "Emo's" so I am going to stick with Deluxe Pacman 2 for now.
   I have also decided, for now anyhow, to program this game in C not C++ using the C99 standard which incorporates many of the things I like about C++ like // comments and other non-class related things. I just like C better, I think C++ is just too bloated and introduces more potential problems when dealing with classes.  I also find my source code just plain easier to read without classes.  But that just a personal preference.  And I may change again and try out C++ classes again, but I want to get this game created and struggling with the ins and outs of C++ and it's classes is just not something I wish to do right now.
   With that said, I managed to get some input routines programmed in.  Allegro 5 has a totally different way of doing things, it's event driven which is better, but a totally different way of doing things than Allegro 4 and earlier done things.  Event driven is closer to how Windows works, so this game will probably play nicer with Windows and other Windows programs that are running in the background which is always a good thing.  Programming it for things like accepting a keypress takes a little more work though.  It took me more than a day to understand how to do this.  Now that I have it working, it seems so easy, it didn't when I went to bed last night!!! ;)
   I set some compiler flags so all the files will definitely be compiled as C (C99 standard) files, I had to go through all the .CPP files and rename them to .C then check the compiler settings (file properties) of each .C and .H file and make sure they were set (in advanced) to "CC" files not "CPP". Even though they are .C files, the stupid compiler STILL defaults to compiling as CPP, not too bright of an idea.
   I also have a simple title screen in it's own function, I moved the initialization code to it's own initialization function, created a wait_for_keypress() function so I have a simple way to wait for a keypress to continue.
   I have some global variables, which I keep hearing are "bad" but if they do the job and only used when absolutely necessary, I don't see them as bad, it's what they're there for. Just don't over do it with them, which I do not.
   I have some ideas for the game to do with languages.  I want to store all text that is displayed in single language files like ENGLISH.LAN, FRENCH.LAN etc... so players can select which language they prefer and the game will then use it, which would be awesome considering the amount of people that played Deluxe Pacman 1 in other countries, I only think it's right to try my best to support their language if I can.  Translating them is another issue, I may have to use Google translate for now unless I can get volunteers to translate for me. 

@2:15PM (v0.0 build 1)
   Okay, I turned on the versioning system for Code::Blocks so it will automatically add builds and versions to this.  I also implemented a FPS system that works really well and shows the frame rate, I'll add in an option in the future to toggle it on/off.    


June 30, 2012
-------------
@6:06PM (0.0 build 16)
   I done more work on the game today, been playing with the timers that I used for the screen updates and I found out that I can create more than one timer that all run at different times that I can adjust as I please!  This is awesome as this means I can easily control the movements of the characters in the game, the animation etc... all with easy to use timers, one for each things I wish to control. This also means I can add in new tools/pickups in the game that adjusts your speed, like GLUE which would slow down the ghosts, SPEED which would speed you up etc.  I am really loving Allegro 5 and look forward to checking out other features it has.
   When the game runs in a window you can close it down by clicking the close button for the window the way you normally would for any other windows program.
   I'm taking my time programming this game as I want to make certain it is done right and that I think of anything that might cause a problem ahead of time.  I can't cover ALL problems that may arise, but I can do my best to get as many as possible and minimize any problems players will have.

@11:46pm (0.0 build 45)
   I done more work on the FPS code and improved it a little.  I reformatted all my code using the Linux bracket format setting in Code::Blocks->Settings->Editor->Source Formatter, I like it.  With one click it will automatically format all my source code to fit my preferred standard with the same indents (3 spaces) etc.  It makes the code more readable, less messy which is important for finding problems. I experimented with the timer code more, got some text character racing across the screen, the game is done! LOL.  Well, maybe not, but they moved at different speeds and smoothly, which was my goal.  I just downloaded the latest Allegro 5 build.  I am now using v5.0.7.  I was just going over the examples and checking out more of what this library can do, and seeing if I can use any thing.


July 1, 2012   *** HAPPY CANADA DAY ***
------------
@3:05PM (0.0 build 97)
   I implemented a simple configuration file function where settings in game can be set by editing an "ini" file inside any text editor.  It works nicely.  I have options currently working like vsync, fullscreen toggle and monitor frequency all in the config file you can adjust them there. I also added a display struct that will hold all the various display settings.

@11:02PM (0.1 build 177)
   I have started to program the game so it can be run in a LOW and HIGH quality mode.  I have low and high quality versions of all graphics and sounds.
   I added in sound functions so the sound system now works, I have a sound sample playing on the opening screen as well as a nice bitmap image (JPG) that loads in the background.  I made the low resolution version of that bitmap 400x300 in size, with 75% compression and disable chroma... unchecked and is 7.69K in size.  The high resolution version is 800x600 with 90% compression and disable chroma checked and is 49.2k in size.  The lower resolution version is simply stretched to fit on the screen.  It's quite a difference in size and should make a big difference as the game nears completion with regard to the amount of memory that is used between LOW and HIGH quality.  Allegro's blender does a nice job when it comes to stretching the graphics.  I tested a pacman and ghost graphic and made them 25x25 low res (1.09K PNG), and 50x50 higher resolution (6.03K PNG) version.  When they are stretched to fit at low res the blender does a nice job making them look decent.  Almost better in some respects.  I may just make the higher resolution versions be stretched a little so that the blender is used on them and smooths the edges.


July 2, 2012
------------
@2:07AM (0.2 build 239)
   I spent MANY hours working on how to set up the display.  In fullscreen mode there was a bug (with the library, it will be fixed for the next stable release, v5.0.8 I assume) that caused it to lag a little.  I spent a lot of time trying to figure out how to get around this.  There was one solution but I felt that it could be alot more work than it was worth.  ALLEGRO_FULLSCREEN_WINDOW, it's a mode where you get a fullscreen mode, BUT, in reality it's really just a window the size of your screen with the border turned off!  There are a lot of benefits to this, one being that you can ALT+TAB between the game and other programs MUCH faster, the game runs smoother in a window (who would have thought the day would come eh?).  The ONLY downside is that it sets the window size to whatever the desktop resolution is of the person playing the game (which is why it is faster, it is using the native resolution).  Well, after much searching and reading and experimenting I found Allegro TRANSFORMS!  What this does is basically moves and scales anything I draw by a certain amount (and 3D acceleration applies to this!).  So I set it to move and scale my screens to fit the screen the player has, and then create black boxes on either side of the screen so it looks identical to setting a fullscreen mode with the 800x600 screen in the center, only this is much faster and you don't have to worry about certain monitor types screwing up the screen on the player.  I'm kind of glad that there was a bug or I may have never bothered trying this idea out!!  It's funny how that seems to work out.  I'm VERY pleased, and at 2am+, tired and time for a break+sleep. :)  Now THIS is the kind of programming I used to do many years ago, up until 2am tapping away like mad on the keyboard, awesome!!! :D

@1:40PM (0.2.256.1417)
   Note: I'm now showing the full version string in the above brackets to give an idea of just how many builds I have done!  It's (MAJOR.MINOR.BUILD.REVSION), as you can see, it's been recompiled A LOT!! :)
   I updated the game now so it no longer does a quality check for each graphic or sound file loaded.  Instead I divided the Low and High quality files into their own separate data files, "Deluxe_Pacman2_Low.pak" and "Deluxe_Pacman2_High.pak".  The game then just needs to check the quality setting ONCE and load from the appropriate data file.  This also eliminates the need for a global variable (quality) and gives the user the option to actually delete the unused data file if they wish to save on space.  I don't recommend this as it will throw an error if you try and switch quality and it doesn't find the file, but it's no big deal.  I can also keep the file names all the same for both quality versions.
   The game has been reprogrammed also so that it just draws scaled bitmaps for both high and low quality rather than checking quality then choose to either draw a bitmap or draw a scaled bitmap (for low quality it needs to be scaled).  Now instead it checks the bitmaps width and height and just inputs that into the scale function that draws both.  This both eliminates the need for a global variable (quality) and it looks cleaner and EITHER bitmap, Low or High quality can now be scaled if I wish.  I just need to create the pacman and ghost structs next so I can store the bitmap sizes and other data in them when they are first initialized rather than checking their sizes each time they are drawn.
   I added in a "a5_scale_screen" function to replace my own code for fitting the display onto any screen.  This is a much nicer function that was given to me by Matthew Leverton at allegro.cc website forums.  MANY thanks go out to everyone at allegro.cc for their help and awesome work they have done on Allegro 5!!!

@5:17PM (0.2.276.1537)
   Okay, after much thought, I decided to switch back to programming in C++ rather than C99 for this project.  Object orientated programming (OOP) just makes more sense when it comes to creating structures to hold the pacman and ghost data, the more I wrote, the more the global variables seem to be piling up and the more code I have to maintain which gives rise to more possible bugs.  It makes more sense to have a pacman class and ghost class where I can group everything together.  It makes things easier to maintain code wise plus it has the added benefit that a class will automatically destroy everything that needs to be destroyed, has built in functions to handle whatever needs to be done without the need for global variables etc.


July 3, 2012
------------
@2:27AM (0.3.324.1792)
   Well that was a HUGE waste of my time.  I know now why I program in C and not C++, I cannot stand C++, it's bloatware, adds far too much to the code and overly complicates things.  I had bugs galore and I finally got fed up with trying to get C++ to work and recoded things back to C (using the C99 standard (-std=c99) which has a few features of C++ that are useful, like the // comments, declaring variables anywhere in your functions etc.  Without the annoying classes and all the headache that goes with them.  It didn't take me long to get the program working again once I was coding in C, I actually added animation to it and a few functions for initializing a newly created PACMAN struct.  The next time I want to try C++ I have to remember to kick my self in the ass.  Maybe someday, but not with this.  I don't feel like learning all the ins and outs of C++ while trying to tackle this large project when I can do it in C blindfolded. ;)
   Tomorrow I'll start work on the ghost struct and functions.  I'm still programming blind here, I never know what to do next.  I have to create a level editor still, a task I am not looking forward to.  Maybe it will go better than I imagine, lets hope, there's no Dialog system with Allegro 5 like there was with Allegro 4, so I'll have to create my own GUI, which sounds like oh so much fun! <heavy sarcasm>

@1:16PM (0.3.325.1797)   
   Another day another dollar.  I started the day by organizing my beautiful C99 code and adding in some comments to make it easier to navigate.  I done my best to group the various pacman initialization routines together.  I may move them into their own functions, perhaps in their own pacman.c file.
   I think I'll move on to getting the ghost animations and graphics loaded.  After that, I hate the idea, but I may start designing some sort of GUI system for use with the editor.  I'll HAVE to get the editor done soon if I am to get a level created for testing, plus I need to ratify some sort of level design and what data will need to be saved in each level file.  Stuff like the pacman starting location, ghost starting locations etc... all need to be set up, levels created so I know how to continue with the game itself and what variables I will need in the appropriate structs and how to handle them in my code.


July 9, 2012
------------
@12:55AM (0.3.344.1909)
   I spent the last few days working on experimenting with various title screen graphics.  I added in the code to control the ghost animation, the structs etc.  I noticed some small errors in the ghost's graphics so I may render them again and see if I can correct that.  It's minor, but it bothers me (with the eyes) and it really shows up in low quality mode around the eyes.  I am tempted to not bother with low quality mode, but I hate to cop out like that, I want this to look decent and I must correct the errors.
   I will probably redo the game's timers I have been using to control the speed of pacman and ghosts.  I currently use 3 timers, one for the display update and two for pacman and ghosts.  I will probably get rid of the pacman and ghost timers and replace them with calculations based on the screen update timers.  I am noticing a slight jittering in the the movements and considering the speed of my machine, it should be rock solid smooth.


July 10, 2012
-------------
@1:50PM (0.3.344.1909)
   I'm just thinking about what to work on next.  I'm putting further work on the animation on the back burner for now as I want to get the editor done.  Before I can start on the actual editor itself I need to develop my own custom GUI system for displaying buttons on screen, reacting to various mouse clicks when it comes to drawing, changing the mouse pointer graphic, animating the buttons and informing the program when a specific screen button was clicked on (not nessecarily in that order ;)).
   I've never developed my own GUI before so it should be a learning experience, but I like it as I can totally customize it to look as nice as I wish without relying on ugly systems like what used to be in Allegro 4.  I also plan to make GUI systems for displaying help screens, drop down menus etc.  Fun times. ;)


August 1, 2012
--------------
@4:14PM (0.3.350.1944)
   I just converted the old MOD music for the title screen and the high score screen to OGG sound files, one high resolution version (44100Khz with OGG quality set to 10) and one low quality version of each (8Khz with OGG quality set to 1).  I was surprised that the really low quality version didn't sound all that different, especially when you consider the size of the file, it's a HUGE difference in size.  I'm tempted to change the old game over to use OGGs as well just so I can stop using old MOD libraries.
   I'm not sure if I will stick to the old music or not, there's not much out there that I like and I am not exactly talented at making music myself.  It sucks, but what can I do. <sigh>
   I also separated the intro() function into two functions, intro() and title().  The intro is the "Neil Roy Presents" screen, you only see it once when you first run the game, and the title() function shows you the "Deluxe Pacman 2" game title screen and starts playing the game's music, that gets replayed whenever you die and the game shows you the high score screen then jumps back to showing that to start over.

   
AUgust 4, 2012
--------------
@11:41AM (0.3.398.2211)
   Okay, I decided, for now anyhow, to get rid of the Low Quality mode.  It's just that it looks too bad for my liking and there is no reason why this game can't run on all modern systems.  RAM is cheap, you can get video cards with a GIG of video RAM on them for cheap with hardware acceleration.  I bought a quad core 3GHz AMD CPU a couple years ago for under $100.  If you can't afford a basic system like this, do what I did, buy it one part at a time.  It takes a few month (usually around 6 months if you buy one or two parts a month), but you will have a nice system all paid for without credit. :)
   I re-organized my graphics.  I had each graphic stored individually when I realized that once I get ALL of them in there will be A LOT of graphics to keep organized, so I now store them as "sprite sheets" that have all the ghosts on one image, all the pills, all of each line set etc... I then load the sheets into an ALLEGRO_BITMAP and create sub bitmaps from the sheets for each item.  I like this, I don't know why I never used sub bitmaps before.  Guess I never seen a use for them until now. :)
   When saving all the pills onto a sprite sheet I noticed I was missing one colour, there was no orange capsule, so I loaded up trueSpace 6.6 and rendered a new capsule.  Thankfully I had already saved a scene in trueSpace (yes, they spell it with a small 't' and capitol 'S') with the capsule and I had created the capsule 3D object in such a way that I can easily colour one side of it with a single mouse click.  I have to love it when I plan ahead like this. ;)  I had also created some templates that when applied to the capsule image automatically trims off the excess pixels, all in all, it was fast and easy to get one done and added to the game with some planning ahead.
   I went over all the graphics and done some minor editing.  I still have more to do I think, there are some tools I want to remake from scratch so they look much better, perhaps render 3D versions + photoshop.  I created a new "Game Over" image, looks bloody, I like it. 
   All the line sets are now in game, I grouped them together, each line set is in it's own image.  I'll probably add in the ability to use your OWN custom made line sets!  This will be a kewl feature, and with PHSYS library I can package any custom line graphics with the map all in one file EASILY, and people will be able to extract the graphics from any map file someone else creates easily for use in their own levels if they wish.
   Today I think I'll add in the menu and level editor buttons to the game and start programming the level editor.  This is something I have been dreading, mainly because Allegro 5 doesn't have a GUI in it like Allegro 4 had, so I'll have to program it myself from scratch.  This probably won't be a bad thing as I'll be able to make it look much nicer in the end.  It'll just be more work and probably more headache with all the bugs and errors that come with such things.  Who knows, this has been going pretty well so far, perhaps it won't be as bad as I think.  We'll see.


August 13, 2012
---------------
@4:20PM (0.3.398.2211)
   I done some more work on the graphics.  I have a new red ghost, new blue (scared) ghost.  I have been using trueSpace 6.6 and Photoshop to create them.  I had problems figuring out how to do the wavey bottoms of the ghosts as it was too difficult to render such a thing the way I wanted to do it.  I ended up using the old templates I used with tile studio to create the bottoms for the old version of the game.  They are basically masks that go at the bottom of the ghost image. They're coloured a bright pink colour so I can then easily erase  them.  Once they are pasted over top of the bottom of the ghost, and then erased, what is left is the wavey pattern at the bottom of the ghost I like, works great.  I saved all images using Photoshop to preserve the alpha channels and for the first time  the game will have nice graphics that smoothly blend with the game around the edges instead of jagged edges.  I use PNG images to store them as well, which can store alpha channels and it is a lossless image format with decent compression.
   I just got done working on the new map format as well, there's quite a bit more to it over the old version as it will store the size of the map so it will be flexible for future expansion without having to convert your maps.  It stores the starting location of the player and ghosts so they can be changed.  It stores whether or not a pill of any size, is a powerpill, this means you can make any pill a powerpill, which will lead to some interesting levels where you could make the player figure out which pills are the power pills.  The maps will also have a flag as to whether or not they are validated, which basically means the level editor will check to make sure there are no errors on your map, like the player or ghost being stuck on the map, or an unreachable pill etc.  If the map passes validation, it will be saved with this flag set to true and be playable.  Maps will also store a BONUS flag on them, which tells the game it is a bonus level, only reachable by doing secret things in the game, or collecting a BONUS tool.  BONUS levels also don't have power pills.
   
   
August 19, 2012
---------------
@2:04AM (Pace 2)
   I done some work on the actual level editor today and I am quite pleased at how it is coming together so far.  I loaded up some old code I had written for an isometric level editor I was working on for a SimCity 2000 style game where you could select roads and draw them on the map by simply clicking and holding your left mouse button down and dragging your mouse and the editor automatically draws the roads and if you cross one road with another it automatically selects the proper road tiles so you get corners, crossroads etc.  Well, I adopted that for my level editor so you can now draw your maps!  You simply drag your mouse around while holding the left mouse button down to draw lines.  It will automatically draw corners, cross them properly etc... it selects the right pieces in order to draw it the way you wish.  Holding down the right mouse button will erase pieces in the same way and it will automatically adjust the map graphics so that pieces are redrawn properly when a connecting piece is erased.  I also have the editor drawing various backgrounds as well.  So far I can create a level (minus the pills) with no problems.  This is going to be an excellent editor that is as easy to use as a pen on paper.
   
@11:35AM (0.4.400.2222)
   I established some rules for all files in the datafile on how files are to be named etc so I have a standard way to name things so that while programming I can know how I spelled something because filenames are case sensitive.  My rule for folders is no short forms like "snd" instead of "sound" or "gfx" instead of "graphics".  Also, all folder and file names MUST begin with a capital letter.  They must not use underscores but they must use spaces.  I want my filenames and folder names to look like normal English.  This isn't DOS and the 90s anymore, I see no reason what so ever to use underscores and short names, I prefer human readable English.  So my "gfx" folder became "Graphics", my "snd" folder became "Sound".  deluxe_pacman_2_icon.png graphic became "Deluxe Pacman 2 Icon.png".  Also, extensions like PNG are in all lowercase.  I figured it is important to establish rules for these sort of things.  It's more than appearance, but this can help reduce the chance of bugs later on due to a spelling mistake, upper or lower case which could be difficult to track down.  There will be no guesswork, if I see a filename in all lowercase I will know the first letter needs to be capitalized.  It also shows that it was typed in hastily (because of no capital letter) and could be an indication of other mistakes.
   
@6:22PM (Pace 2)
   I done more work on the level editor, it now draws lines and only connects the previous line to the current position.  It will also connect up any lines that you cross, or connect up to, but it will no longer connect to lines you didn't specifically want it to connect to.  This means you can draw two lines that run parallel to each other, or side by side, and they will never connect to each other unless you want them to.  This makes more sense and allows for some more interesting patterns to be created that couldn't otherwise be made.
   
@11:07PM (Pace 2)
   I added in code to detect the mouse wheel and change the background tiles when you turn the mousewheel.  I also added in code to toggle grid on and off when you press "G".  There will be a button for it eventually, but it is always nice to have keyboard shortcuts.
   There is code that checks to see if you saved your level, if you have made changes to the map and haven't saved the map before you choose to exit the editor (with ESC or clicking the close button) it will bring up a prompt warning you that you haven't saved your changes yet.  Like the last version of the editor did.  This protects you from accidentally exiting the editor before you save any changes.  Once you save your work, it won't prompt you when you quit, it will just quit without any prompts.
   I decided against adding in an "Auto-Attach" mode which would connect lines to all neighbouring lines.  There is no use for a feature like this what so ever, the way it draws lines now is perfect.  Connecting extra lines in any way you wish is a very simple matter.  This is one of those features that seems better on paper than in practise.  I may leave out the background selection bar as well and just go with the mouse wheel alone.  There's no real need to select a background by manually clicking on it when you can scroll through them with your mouse wheel as fast as you can turn the wheel and the screen is updated instantly.  I'm also not going to bother with a colour selector for the background, it has limited use really, I'll just create a few more tiles of different colours and styles for a variety.  The mouse wheel + tiles selector is just too easy to do it any other way.  Plus there is no built in GUI in Allegro and quite frankly, I don't feel like creating one just so I can change the colours to a different shade.


August 26, 2012
---------------
@4:16PM (Pace 2)
	I have been working the past couple days on the editor.  So far I have quite a bit of it done, you can draw lines, you can place Pacman, the ghosts and the pickup spawn points on the map.  I load in the graphics that are used in the game itself and extract one graphic to use to represent the various spawn points on the map.  If you draw lines, you cannot draw over a spawn point.  Also, if you place a ghost on the map, it will erase any lines at that spawn and adjust neighbouring lines accordingly as if you erased it (and you did).  I need to double check what happens with the player spawn and pickup/tool spawn next to make certain lines are erased from the map when they are placed.  I will have to add in the pills next.  I think I will display 8 pills at a time (a row at a time) and if you click an arrow it will show the next row of pills to select from.  I decided against adding in a BONUS button to flag a level as a bonus level.  Instead levels will simply be saved as BONUS###.MAP, where ### is 3 integers that represent the bonus level number.  This is simpler, and leaves more space for other things on the editor.  I don't want it too cluttered plus I really don't think players should be creating their own bonus levels so I won't be adding in any features for the game to load externally created bonus levels.  With regard to the ghosts, I current just have "Ghost0, Ghost1" etc... beside the buttons you click to add them to the map.  I will rename those to the ghost colour instead so it's less confusing.  Something like "RED GHOST", "BLU GHOST", "PUR GHOST"... because you have to click the button in order to erase (right click) a ghost to get rid of the spawn.  This can get confusing trying to recall which # corresponds to which ghost, the colour is best.
	
 @4:40PM (Pace 2)
	I added in ghost text "RED GHOST" etc... but it was too wide and overlapped other buttons, so instead I only have "Ghost" but I alter the colour of the text to reflect which ghost that button is for.  So for the Red Ghost button, it shows "Ghost" text in red.  It actually looks quite nice.

	
August 28, 2012
---------------
@12:19AM (Pace 2)
	I added in pill selection and drawing.  I moved some of the buttons around to make room on the right side to display ALL the pills at once.  When you click on a pill it selects pill drawing mode.  If you click the middle mouse button you will switch between PILL mode and LINE mode.  I plan to add in key commands "L" for line mode and "P" for pill mode as well as the ability to click in the line area that shows the current line set to select line mode.  This is intuitive and people will naturally click that area to select line drawing.  I still need to create separate functions for drawing pills like the one I have for drawing lines.  I renamed the remove_line() function to remove_tile() as it can also be used to remove pills.  I plan to edit it so that you can more easily remove the spawn points for player, ghost and pickup.  This will make editing a lot easier, also make coding it easier with one function that does it all.  The draw pill function will be easy, I just want to add in checks to that you don't place a pill in the same grid location as a spawn (something you can do currently).  I also lowered the line bar and arrows down to make room for buttons above it so I could fit the pills in on the right side.  When you select a pill it draws a white square around it, also the editor draws a green square around the pills or lines depending on which mode is in effect and a red one around the one that isn't selected.
	It's looking very good so far anyhow, I am quite pleased.  I need to add in POWERPILL mode which will allow you to make ANY pill a powerpill, large or small.
	
@1:42PM (Pace 2)
	I wrote the functions to load and save the maps quickly.
	
	
August 31, 2012
---------------
@7:50AM (Pace 2)
	I done more work on the editor.  Today I added in a symmetry mode quickly.  I got the idea a couple days ago but quickly forgot about it, but today someone at Allegro.cc reminded me about it so I decided to quickly add it in before I forgot again.  What it does is you can select X or Y (currently with keys, but I will be adding in buttons for them shortly) and the editor will MIRROR anything you place on the map (Lines or Pills, placing AND erasing).  So if you select X, it will place a pill or line at the opposite side of the map horizontally.  If you select Y it will mirror it vertically.  If you select both, it will be in the opposite corner.  You basically imagine a line that divides the map exactly in half either vertically or horizontally (or both) and if you draw in one quadrant, it will draw in the opposite.  It makes for some VERY fast level creation.  Most of my levels are symmetrical in one way or another anyhow, so this will help.  I also have to edit the erasing code so that I can more easily erase ghosts and such without having to actually select them with a button first, it's just more intuitive that way.  I also added code so if you click in the line area, it will select line drawing mode, just like if you select a pill it automatically selects pill mode.  The middle mouse button also works for toggling them which can be handy if you don't want to lose your place.

	
Septempber 7, 2012
------------------
@2:43PM (Pace 2)
	I just noticed a minor bug in the editor.  If you selected Player, one of the Ghosts or Pickup/Tool placing mode, but then you changed your mind, and turned that mode back off without placing anything, the editor would still remain in the previously selected mode and the next time you clicked on the map, whatever you used to have turned on (Player etc) would be placed.  I added in a simple line of code that checks the previous state and if the previous state was enabled for any of those buttons (but aren't enabled now), that means the person just turned it off and the edit.mode is reset to the default, which is LINE drawing mode.
	I also got rid of the pressed_key[] array.  It was used to store the state of each key and whether it was pressed or not, but with Allegro 5 you don't need this.  You just check the events and if a key was pressed, it will already have which one was pressed and you can simple write code to respond to it.  I realized I had a pressed_key[] array (probably copied from someone's example code) that I wasn't using at all.

@3:59PM (Pace 2)
	I changed the remove_tile() function so that now it removes everything that is at a specific tile by default.  It is no longer necessary to click on  the Player, Ghosts or Pickup button to remove those items, right clicking on them on the map, no matter which mode is on, will remove everything at that location.  This also allowed me to remove a lot of code where I was checking to see what mode was enabled, now that the mode doesn't matter I can simply use 2 lines of code to call the remove_tile() function.
	I also reprogrammed the remove_tile() function so that it adjusts the lines of the surrounding tiles ONLY if the current tile was a line, otherwise there is no sense checking the surrounding tile's line connections to the currently selected tile if it wasn't a line in the first place.
	As a result of the above changes, I had to move the code for erasing the line/pill from the current tile to the end of the function, otherwise if I erase the line at the current tile, it won't adjust the surrounding tiles.
	I also had to change the code when you place a player/ghost/pickup so that it erases the current tile BEFORE it places anything, otherwise if you place it first, the remove_tile() function will erase it again now that it erases everything.
	
@4:53PM (Pace 2)
	I got rid of the edit.symx and edit.symy variables.  I don't know why I set them up in the first place, they were redundant when I already had s_symx.state and s_symy.state variables for the buttons, I just need to check those to see if they are set to 2 to see if the button is on, no need for a separate variable.
	I also changed the code so if you click NEW the line set won't be reset to the default but will stay on whatever line set you picked.
	

Septempber 12, 2012
-------------------
@2:10PM (Pace 2)
	I just got done playing some Rise of the Triad, an old DOS game I purchased from GOG.com for under $3, can't go wrong.  Good game, brings back memories.  Anyhow, on to more programming my own games.  I Have to add in the powerpill code and the validate code, and if I have the time, I'll try and maybe add in an undo button/keyboard control (it would be CTRL+Z if I do).
	
@4:37PM (Pace 2)
	I added in the Powerpill code.  When in Powerpill mode, it will highlight any pill you click on indicating it is a powerpill.  It draws a red square outline with a fill transparent white center over the pill.
	I changed the QUIT button so that it doesn't respond until you RELASE it.  There is a bug in the Allegro library where if you click the mouse button down in the events and respond to it while it is down and bring up a prompt to ask the person if they are sure, and if the person selects Cancel and goes back to editing, the editor will have the left mouse button detection stuck as if it is being held down until clicked again.  So instead I wait until the person clicks QUIT and releases the mouse button before they are prompted, this way it doesn't get stuck on if they cancel.  I'll switch it back if and when it gets fixed in the library.
	

Septempber 13, 2012
-------------------
@2:29AM (Pace 2)
	I just got done my work on the Validate function.  It isn't completed yet, but I added in the code from Deluxe Pacman 1 that I came up with for Ghosts to find paths intelligently around the level.  I am using that path finding code in the Validate function in order to make sure all pills are reachable, and that all ghosts can reach Pacman.  It's easier than it may seem.  I mark Pacman's spawn point as a point to find a path to, the function then marks the distance from the spawn to all points of the map.  If any point doesn't have a distance marked, but has a pill, than the pill is unreachable and it will be flagged as an error.  The same thing with the ghosts and pickup spawn, they will have to be on a map position that has a distance marked in order to be valid.  Other items that will be checked is that if there is a side that is missing where the player can go off one edge of the map and wrap around, it will make certain the other side is also open.  Validate will also check to make certain there are pills on the map.  I may check for powerpills and allow none to be present but maybe warn that none are present and get confirmation about validating the map without one.
	I'll continue editing this tomorrow (later today).  I still want to add in code so you can click a powerpill location that is ALREADY SET to toggle it back off again.  Otherwise it's a pain to have to erase  the map cell and reselect and replace the pill just to disable the powerpill setting.  I'm just about done the editor anyhow, I was going to add in an undo feature but I honestly don't feel the levels of this game are large or complex enough to warrant it.  I do need to add on a "light" or some sort of indicator that the level has been validated plus I want to add in some text at the top of the screen telling the person how many pills are on the map.  And maybe I'll just use coloured text that says "Validated: Yes" (maybe YES, NO and ERROR).  If error, highlight the squares where the error is with red overlaid squares.
	
	
Septempber 14, 2012
-------------------
@9:12PM (Pace 2)
	Done more work on the VALIDATE button.  It will now highlight areas in red where there are problems like pills that can't be reached.  I still have more work to do on it, but it's coming along nicely.  At the moment I simply check the path_node[y][x] array which contains values for each tile of the map.  999 if a tile blocks your path (like a line), -1 if it is an empty tile, or a tile with a pill that cannot be reached by the player and a number from zero to some positive number (usually as high as in the twenties) indicating how many tiles (that can be moved on) that square is away from Pacman.  The array is filled with -1 for tiles that can be moved on, like pills or empty, and 999 is put in for things like lines that block movement.  Then the function figures out how far each tile that can be travelled on is away from Pacman.  If it cannot find a path to a tile, the -1 remains.  This is used to help ghosts find short paths around a map, but it is also great for finding things like empty tiles or tiles with pills especially that are somehow blocked and inaccessible. They will have the -1 in them if there is no path to them from Pacman.  So I run this function when the VALIDATE button is pressed then check for tiles that contain a pill AND are flagged in path_node[y][x] with a -1, I then easily know there is a problem and can mark that tile in an error[y][x] array which is checked later when I draw  the map and the drawing function will draw a 50% transparent, alpha blended square over that tile to indicate a problem.
	I plan to also check to make sure if you have an empty square on the side of the map that there is a matching empty square for you to go to on the opposite side.  It will also check to make sure there is at least one pill on the level.  It will check to make sure the ghost and pacman spawns aren't next to each other.  I was going to add in other checks that had more to do with level design, but I figured I would adopt a "no design restrictions" policy.  For example, I was going to add in  a check for Powerpills, but that has more to do with design than something that is important.  Having at least one pill on a level IS important though.  It's better to have MORE than one, but that would be a design issue.  Once I am done with the VALIDATE, I need to add an indicator that shows if the level has been validated or not and then I MIGHT add in a PILL FILL option, but I am uncertain of this, it would be EASY to code with the path finding function, I could simple add pills to all locations that didn't have 999 or -1, and weren't the location of one of the game's characters or pickup.
	
	
September 15, 2012
------------------
@12:47AM (Pace 2)
	I added in a PILL FILL button.  At first I used the path finding function to only fill locations that the player could access, but this required the player spawn to already be on the map so I scrapped that and just scanned the map for empty spaces and any pill that wasn't tagged as a power pill and filled that location with the current fill type.  This way the person can erase any pills that get placed in locations that can't be accessed.  But they can fill at anytime without the player spawn needing to be in place YET.  Also, a great feature of the way I decided to do it is that you can now select a new pill if you don't like the old one, PILL FILL again and it will replace all pills on the level with the new one.  It won't replace any pills that have been tagged as Power Pills though, this way you can set up PowerPills to the graphic you like, then fill the rest of the level in with whatever normal pills you like without worrying about losing all your power pills.  I am quite pleased with this function, and it was easy to implement this way.
	Pills also won't be placed on the border.
	I also done more work on the VALIDATE button, it now returns a message describing what the problem it had with validation (if any) which is displayed at the top of the screen so you know what to fix.
	I re-organized my code so that functions specific to the Editor, but not needed in the game itself are in an editor only file that contains things like map saving, pill_fill etc... that the game itself will never use so they don't get compiled with the code for the game.  Both the editor and game share the code for loading the levels and path finding, so they're in a separate file from the editor only functions.
	I just need to add in code to check and make sure the player spawn isn't next to a ghost spawn.  I will also check to make sure none of the spawns are on the border of the map, I don't want ANY spawns or pills on the border.  I also need to check to make sure any empty spots on the border have a matching spot on the opposite border.
	
@12:04PM (Pace 2)
	Starting work on this again today, hopefully I can wrap up the rest of what I wanted to do with the editor today, and maybe do some extensive beta testing of the editor to make certain there are no flaws with it then get started on the game itself.  The game programming should go much faster with a completed level editor already finished, it will mean I know how the levels are stored and what information they contain and can easily program the game to load in them in (already programmed that actually as the game and editor share the same function for loading) and deal with collision (I have a function for pixel perfect collision detection as well as normal fast collision already created, I just need to port it into this project) as well as spawn times and what not.  I think the level editor actually takes more work than the game itself, it's always good practise to first design your game and level extensively before you start actual coding, then create some graphics, they can be placeholders for now and do something better later on. Then create a good level editor for your game BEFORE you create the game itself so you have levels to test on.  You can work out the details of how the levels will look while working on the editor.
	
@12:31PM (Pace 2)
	I added in a simple routine to check to make certain the pacman spawns and ghosts are next to each other, otherwise they would be overlapping and trigger a collision right away, plus it is just too close to start off with.  You can still place them with one tile between pacman and ghosts, which wouldn't be a good level design, but I am not getting into design elements with the Validate button, except with border issues.  Coding this check was very easy, in a loop that checks all 4 ghosts, I added in code that checks the pacman's X and Y position, subtracts the ghost's position and get the absolute value of those with stdlib's abs() function.  This way I merely need to check if they are 1 or less (1 or zero) to see if they're too close.
	
@12:44PM (Pace 2)
	I added in code to check to make certain the player, ghosts and pickup aren't located on the levels border.
	
@1:13PM (Pace 2)
	I added in code to check the border areas for "Wrap Errors".  What this does is check areas of the border (that you can move on) where you would normally wrap around to the other side of the level, and VALIDATE makes certain the opposite side of the map has an open area you can move on too.
	Next I need to program in a proper file dialog that prompts you what level to load in and what level to save.  At the moment it loads and saves "LEVEL001.DP2"
	
@1:40PM (Pace 2)
	I done more work on the VALIDATE and changed the wording on the error messages.  If it finds an isolated pill that you cannot reach, it says "ISOLATED PILL", this seemed more descriptive.  I also added in some check so if there is more than one pill, it says "ISOLATED PILLS", it's a minor thing, but I like it to be more polished.  I done the same thing for WRAP errors, it has a singular and plural version as well.  I also separated the pill and wrap code, I had it all in the same loops that checked the map but if it found errors in both it would show red marks on the map for pill and wrap errors but only have text concerning one of them.  This way if it finds pill errors, you just see the pill errors, you can fix them, validate again and if there are wrap errors, you'll be notified of them the next time around.
	
@4:46PM (Pace 2)
	I added in a file dialog to the LOAD and SAVE functions so now you will get a proper windows file request that pops up and asks you which file you wish to load/save.  It even remembers the folder you chose last (under Windows 7 anyhow) which is great.  I just need to create a larger variety of backgrounds, but the main coding on the editor is pretty much complete!  Woohoo!  Aside from any bug fixes or future additions (I may still add an UNDO button), there should be no more work that is needed.  I can finally work on the game itself.


Septempber 19, 2012
-------------------
@2:41PM (Graphics)
	I done some work yesterday and today on the ghosts.  I redone them all so the eyes are larger.  Also, yestersay I rendered them (in trueSpace 6.6) with a medium grey (RGB=128 for each colour), but that left a faint greyish outline around the rendered ghosts.  It wasn't really that noticable once I got them resized, but it still bugged me that it was there at all, so I changed the background colour to black and rendered them all over again.  This time there was no outline, my software treats the black like an alpha setting and ignores it totally leaving a perfect border that blends with the background better.  It took more work, a better part of a day to redo, but it was worth it in the end.  I also used to have the ghosts eyes and blue scared ghosts mixed in with the normal ghost sprite sheet, but because there are 5 diffeent ghost images (4 for normal directions and 1 that looks right at you for when it is sitting still or frozen) and only 4 blue ghosts and 4 sets of eyes, I seperated the blue ghost + eyes onto their own sprite sheet so I am not wasting memory.
	
@3:55PM (0.4.444.2456)
	I done work on the game.  I added code in to handle the animations properly.  I now draw the top part of the ghosts which has the eyes pre-rendered already, no more adding eyes to the image after wards. There are 4 ghost images that make up the 4 directions they can look as well as the 4 frames of animation for the bottom part.  The top part is drawn showing which way the eyes are looking, then the current frame of the bottom for animation.
	If the ghost is scared just the blue ghost is draw with the current frame of animation. If the ghost is "dead" (been eated while blue leaving just his eyes) than only eyes are drawn.  There's a separate set of 4 eyes for each direction they can look.
	It's a subtle difference, but the ghosts look a tiny bit better when the eyes are rendered as part of their body.  This way I can further edit them with trueSpace 6.6 and add more detail specific to each ghost, with the eyes properly sinking a little into the head in certain spots (like around the nose).
	There is some stuttering with the character movement I want to look into fixing if I can.  I may eliminate the timers I set up separately for the ghosts and pacman and instead just use the single redraw timer for all animation.  I get the feeling having several timers running might be the reason why there is a "stuttering" effect.  Time will tell.


Septempber 21, 2012
-------------------
@12:52PM (Graphics)
	I created a few more background tiles to give more variety.  I have a selection of solid colours as well as a few patterns.  I may have to figure out a way to create shadows under the lines, pills, ghosts etc.
	I also need to edit Pace 2 editor again so that it shows what the filename is that was previously loaded, otherwise you can easily forget the name of it as I seem to do every time I edit a level. ;)
	
@12:52PM (Graphics)
	I had some trouble with Allegro 5's new file handling system.  I don't like it and it will take me longer to figure out how, if there is a method, to have a filename up by default when a person goes to save so that they will know the name of the file they loaded (if any).  I'll work on that later.
	I was looking at some of the levels and testing out some of the new backgrounds and I noticed that everything seems so... "FLAT", so I decided to see about adding in shadows to everything to make it all stand out against the background.  It turned out to be easier than I thought it would.  I simple draw using the draw_tinted_bitmap... functions, using al_rgba_f(0,0,0,.5) (no colour, 50% transparency) and you don't see any colour of the object being drawn, just what looks like a shadow of it.  Works great, I draw the shadow version first, offset in the X and Y directions down and to the right so you can see it, then I draw the object itself in the usual way.  The effect is quite nice.  Now everything stands out and isn't so flat looking.  I may play with blending some more.
	it's funny, I thought crating shadows for everything would be a lot of work, and setting a default filename to show up for saving files would be easy and it turned out to be the opposite.  I really think they overcomplicated the file system.  My main complaint is using ALLEGRO_PATH rather than a simple char* which can be used easily with other C functions.
	
@8:23PM (Pace2 & Graphics)
	I redone the green3d wall style line set so the right side of it was a dark green rather than a bright green shade as now with the shadows it doesn't make sense to have the side that is brightest also has a shadow, the shadows indicate the light comes from the upper left corner and so I need to make sure I keep that in mind when editing graphics.
	I also noticed a small bug.  If you load in a level that was already validated, then select the Pill Fill option to change the normal dots, it remained validated, even though the pill fill could potentially place a dot into an isolated location.  I added in code to reset the validated flag, the saved level flag as well so the game will prompt you if you quit for any unsaved changes.
	
	
Septempber 21, 2012
-------------------
@12:31AM (Pace 2)
	I added code to the level editor so that it will now use fullscreen mode or windowed mode depending on what your game settings are for the main game.  I may separate the settings later on, I'm undecided.
	I had to remove some code that used some hardware features to improve the LOOK of the editor (filtering) because of problems when lines are displayed.  I may redo some of the code so that individual line tiles are all stored in memory separately, this would avoid the problem.
	
	
Septempber 22, 2012
-------------------
@3:27AM (Pace 2)
	Okay, I confirmed my suspicions about what was causing the lines to appear on the screen in full screen mode using linear filtering to improve the look.  The problem lies with using sprite sheets as I do for my game.  When you use linear filtering it samples all surrounding pixels to help smooth things out.  When you have a sprite sheet, with all graphics on one bitmap, you can probably guess what happens.  Around the edges it samples pixels from the neighbouring sprites on the same bitmap.  So either I A) create new sprite sheets with a 1 pixel border around each tile that is basically a duplicate of the border pixels, which to me is not a good option.  or B) separate the tiles.  What I will do is when I load the sprite sheets, I will separate them in the game itself and copy them into separate bitmap arrays, then just destroy the original.  This way I can still store tham as sheets, no extra memory wasting border.  Also, a 1 pixel border sounds okay, but what if I want to change filtering methods in  the future that samples more than 1 pixel?  Also, the 1 pixel border idea doesn't work for MIP MAPPED or Anisotropic filtering, not that it's an issue with this 2 game, but for 3D games it would be, so I would rather stick to methods that benifit both styles of games, just to keep my coding style flexible.

@8:10PM (Pace 2)
	I reprogrammed the editor so that when it loads in the lines and the background tiles, it takes the individual tiles and copies them to an array so that they are stored separately to avoid problems with filtering artifacts from being on a sprite sheet.  Graphics that have totally transparent borders like pills didn't need this done, only graphics where colour pixels exist on borders that are shared with neighbouring tiles on the same sprite sheet.  The result worked beautifully and I'll eventually add in the same code to the game itself.


Septempber 27, 2012
-------------------
@7:47PM (0.5.533.2908)
	I added loading levels into the main game.  I also edited Pace 2 level editor so that it now uses allegro functions for reading the level data, functions like al_fopen(), al_fread() and al_fgetc() in place of fopen() etc.  The allegro function are designed to be more cross platform plus they can be redirected to read from a memory file (a sort of virtual file in memory) or from a PHSYFS() supported file like an archive or just a normal file with some simple commands.  With the allegro 5 functions it is a simple task to check for a user made level in the same folder as the executable, or switch to loading the default levels from the data file with just ONE command but using the same code to read the data in which is quite a bit nicer to deal with than I first expected.
	The game's load function is slightly different than the editors and so I implemente a separate function, although now that I think of it, I could have probably just added a switch to be able to select the dialog interface or not.  I still might.
	The levels load up no problem, I had to tweak the code a little to get the game characters to start in the proper places on the map as it is offset by 32x32 from the upper left corner, which is different than the offset in the editor.
	I made the ghost spawns look like circles, coloured to match the ghost that spawns there.  I just used allegro's al_draw_circle() and al_draw_filled_circle() functions with some alpha blended colours, the result is simple, yet nice looking and should look okay on most levels.
	I moved the frame rate (FPS) counter to the bottom center of the screen, I will add in a switch so that it can be toggled on and off, right now it doesn't go higher than 60 due to the update timer being fixed at 60 frames per second, which is more than enough, I could probably go half that and have it still look good.  All in all, added in the load level function was quite painless and bug free.  All the planning I done ahead of time is really paying off.  I have been taking my time programming this so I do it right, do it well and the fringe benefit is that it has also resulted in very few bugs, something I really didn't expect, but I will most definitely keep in mind for future projects.


Septempber 28, 2012
-------------------
@4:07PM (0.5.591.3231)
	I moved the level drawing code into it's own function so it can be called from different places.
	I decided to relax my restrictions on using global variables.  I find that it takes much more time and effort to program the game around avoiding their usage than simply using them.  I hear it said they are bad to use because it makes it more difficult to track bugs, I personally have not seen this problem in the many years I have programmed, not once.  I will see if there are ways I can reduce their usage, but I will nop longer go out of my way to do it.  I did manage to create the editor without using a single global, but I was only able to do that by cramming most of my code in  the main() function with very few external functions.  Where I do have external functions I pass pointers to structs I created that contain all the information needed by a function.  Where I can't use functions is to draw the screen as that would require globals or a lot of variables passed to the function.  Also, I like to have a separate function for destroying variables, but this is not possible unless they are global or again, passed to the function which would be ridiculous, as a result I destroy all variables at the end of my main() in the editor and if there is a problem during initialization of the program and it needs to quit, I use a GOTO command to go to a SHUT_DOWN: label that is near the end of main, so that at any point it can jump to that spot where it will run the code to destroy the variables and exit.  On the flip side, the main game itself has lots of variables as I want to be able to use a function to destroy instead, also I NEED a function to draw  the map in more than one location.  I may still look into ways to limit the number of globals as it looks horrible having so many.  I'm not sure how, I may look at other people's code.

@11:34PM (0.6.630.3413)
	I created a nice message() function that takes printf() style arguements and creates a nice graphical semi-transparent box with rounded corners and a light border at the center of the screen with your message inside it.  The message and the border share ths same colour, the background of the box is a transparent black colour.  It looks quite nice.  This was a learning experience for me as it is the first time I have created a function that can take printf() style arguements.  If you want to know how, just google "va_list" and read the wikipedia article on it for examples etc.  I used a buffer to construct text from the arguements, then I test the width of the final text etc... before sending it all to an Allegro 5 function that prints out text using a TrueType font etc.  I'm very happy with this.  I may edit this so that it slowly opens up the box, unscrolling it like a scroll from the center of the screen out to the maximum width and height it needs to be before displaying text just for a little "pizzaz".  Maybe fade in the text once the box is full size.  It wouldn't be too slow, but just a nice animated speed that looks good without taking too long.
	
	
Septempber 29, 2012
-------------------
@4:15PM (0.6.634.3436)
	I updated the draw_level() function so that it now draws the level onto a smaller 736x544 pixel bitmap, which is what the exact size of the 23x17 tiles is (each tile is 32x32 pixels).  Then once the level and characters are drawn onto this temporary bitmap, it is drawn onto the screen, with it's upper left corner starting at 32x32.  This way when ghosts and pacman goes off the edge of the screen to wrap around, they won't be visible off the edge of the map, but they will be clipped as they leave the map due to the fact that they are drawn on a smaller bitmap instead of the main screen.  This will also prevent any shadows from lines, pills, ghosts etc... from appearing off the map.  This hasn't been a problem yet, but if I decide to make the shadows further away, I can do so now without seeing them "bleed" out onto other parts of the game (like health indicators and such).  Once the level is drawn, the temporary bitmap is destroyed before the function exits.  If there is any problem creating the temporary bitmap the function will return false and the game will exit.
	
@10:42PM (0.6.673.3672)
	I added in a new function to help with the ghost's path finding called dir().  It uses the path finding function to return  the best direction for a ghost to take (one of 4 directions, down, left, right or up) in order to take the shortest path to the destination you passed to it.  I will use this to help the ghosts find their way from any location on the map back to their home base, as well as tracking the player.  It takes into account screen wrap, so if the shortest path involved wrapping around the screen, the ghost will wrap around, so it's fairly intelligent and like the old game, the ghosts will be able to deal with any map you can throw at them.
	I think I may have a drawing error of some sort with the ghosts, so I took a screenshot and I am about to check it out (zoomed in) to see.
	

October 10, 2012
----------------
@12:43PM (0.7.703.3818)
	Okay, I changed the "pixel perfect" collision detection to just normal bounding box collision detection as pixel perfect is simply too slow to be practical.  It's also not really nessecary for a game like this.  The problem with the collision detection I used in the old game was that I didn't use bounding box at all with it, I checked which tile the characters occupied and if they were on the same one, collision, the problem with this is that pacman could be just leaving a tile at the same time a ghost was just entering it, and there wouldn't be a collision, but it would detect it as one.  With bounding box it will be far more accurate, the space their bitmap images occupy will have to overlap in order to detect a collision.  There is still room for error as the pitmaps are square and have empty space around the actual images that could potentially overlap and be falsely detected as a collision.  My solution for this will probably be to reduce the size of the bounding box to be a few pixels smaller than the actual bitmap size so they can overlap a LITTLE BIT without a collision detection, say around 5 pixels or so, I'm about to check the bitmaps now to determine a good number to allow for overlap.  It should make people happy to see a ghost actually touch them... barely, yet get away without dieing rather than be like before when they got killed without a ghost touching them.  This new system should be much better, just as fast to detect without bogging the game down like pixel perfect would.  The reason why pixel perfect slows down so much is that I have to copy the bitmaps to a new temporary bitmap due to the fact that the pacman sprite is animated and can be rotated and so it needs to be rotated to it's current position the same way it is drawn on the screen to have an accurate collision test, this takes time, then each pixel in the overlapping areas needs to be checked to see if any overlap... far too slow a process for such a small benefit, it's just not worth doing.
	
	
October 21, 2012
----------------
@4:05PM (0.7.715.3871)
	I didn't do much work today, just added in some code to the dir() function.  It's a function I created to help the ghosts find the shortest path around the map to any given destination (usually pacman or their home).  I added in an extra boolean variable to it so you can indicate that you want the ghost to choose a random path rather than the shortest one.  When this happens it will find all the valid directions you can move to in the direction you are traveling (straight ahead, turn left, turn right), and pick a valid direction from those.  If the ghost reaches a dead end, and all valid directions fail, it will automatically choose the direction that the ghost came from (turn around).  If the random variable is set to false, it will return the shortest path (down, left, right or up) to the ghost's detination.  The game will use this function every time a ghost reaches an intersection where a turn is possible.  Depending on the difficulty level, it will either choose a path leading to the pacman, home (if it has been eaten) or on lower difficulty levels, a random direction.
	I may program in certain behaviours for the different ghosts so that the red one tends to go straight after you, the purple one will try and get ahead of you etc... so you can get a better idea how they behave in game and maybe even develop strategies for defeating them.
	
   
December 18, 2012
-----------------
@3:55PM (0.7.723.3921)
   I took a break from programming to try out the new World of Warcraft expansion, Mists of Pandaria.  Nice looking expansion, but the game is boring and I have already cancelled my account after getting four of my characters to level 90, including a monk. ;)
   As for this game, I recently recieved a HUGE donation from JAMES WIGGINS, this is the second time he has generously donated money for this game, the first time it was $100 which I was impressed with, this time it was $500!!!  The biggest donation ever, I rarely get anything at all for this game (just over $275 in about 18 years of programming it) so this is encouraging.  Thank him for getting me back working on it again, thanks James.
   Anyhow, I just adjusted my code a bit, I noticed a small error I had made in my code to move my pacman and ghosts.  They were set to check for the border of the screen when they wrap around to the other side, the problem is, the map is smaller than the screen!  I had shrunk the map down so it is 32 pixels in from the left and 32 down from the top as well as 736 wide by 544 tall, so I needed to adjust the function so they wrapped at the right spot of a player could have potentially moved around the outside of the map.
   Next thing I will work on after Star Trek, the news and supper is map collision.  I have collision working with characters (player<>ghost), just not map at this time.  Shouldn't be difficult (famous last words).
   I need to avoid spending so long away from coding this as I tend to forget what I was doing last.  I am so glad I keep this journal so I can go back and see what I was doing as well as LOTS of comments I leave in my code.  It is good practise to leave comments in, even if you are sure you will know what you were doing, leave them in anyhow, trust me, you WILL forget!  Plus if you ever decide to give the code, or a snippit of your code to someone else, they will know what you are doing.  You should also try and keep it looking neat and tidy, it is easier to read and helps you locate bugs faster.
   
@10:28PM (0.7.734.3992)
   I added in collision detection for pacman and level lines.  It's pretty simple code and works well.  If you press a key to try and change direction, the game tests to make sure you're centered on a tile, then it checks to see if the tile in the direction you wish to go is a line, if it is, than you can't turn otherwise a turn is made.  The only circumstances where you can't turn is if you're on the outer border of the map.  Proper map designs should have a line bordering the map except where the player can wrap around so turning on the border itself is not permitted.
   
@11:47PM (0.7.747.4045)
   I added in code to pick up pills and subtract them from the number left on the map.  I have LOTS more to do and it's late so, I'll get back to work on it tomorrow.
   
   
December 21, 2012
-----------------
@11:28PM (0.7.767.4151)
   I added in code to turn ghosts blue when a power pill is eaten.  I also added in some code to start adding scoring for eating pills.  Fixed a few bugs where I forgot to add in code to reset the state of ghosts when a new level was loaded and a few other minor bugs.
   Since I started recoding the game in December, I also upgraded my Allegro library from v5.0.7 to v5.0.8.  I have been tempted to try using the test version which is much newer, but I decided against that for now.
   
   
December 23, 2012
-----------------
@12:28PM (0.7.778.4221)
   The ghosts now follow the levels properly with a 50% chance to chase pacman or not.  The eyes have a 50% chance to head straight back to their home as well.  I'll change this later on so they behave differently depending on the difficulty settings.  Hard, the ghosts will have a greater chance to chase you and/or their eyes will go straight back home.  On easy the ghosts would be 100% random (or maybe 75% random on easy, 50% on medium and 25% random on hard?) I may impliment different behavior for each ghost, I am not sure about this yet, but it would be nice to give them more "personality".
   One problem I noticed that I have to correct is sometimes  ghosts will suddenly change direction, I must have forgotten to put a check in my dir() function to make sure they can't choose the direction they came from if they still have a path in the direction they are currently moving.  They are only allowed to suddenly turn around the way they came from if there is no other direction to go.  This should be fairly simple to fix.
   I am noticing that this version of the game is coming together a lot easier and faster than I expected.  This is due mostly to lots and lots of planning ahead of time.  It really does save you a lot of time and headache if you do some planning before hand.  The code also looks much cleaner.
   The game also crashed once on me.  I am not certain why, I did have some code in it where the purple ghost checked ahead of where the player was moving and moved to where he was going rather than where he was, but I didn't have a check in there to make sure the destination was a valid one.  I figured the dir() function would take care of that, but I may have been wrong on that.  It was only a test to see if the idea would work anyhow and I removed that code and haven't seen a crash again.  This still bugs me because it could be something else.  I'll try more extensive testing later.
   
@3:30PM (0.7.780.4233)
   I fixed the problem with the ghosts suddenly changing direction.  I had code in already to prevent that from happening, but I had only used it when a random direction was used.  I simply had to redo the existing code so that it checked no matter what.  It basically just checks the valid directions available and stores them in an array, then it sets the direction the ghost came from as an invalid choice and then checks to see what other directions can be moved to.  If a fixed path, than it chooses the shortest route, if it is a random, than it starts at a random direction.  If all available paths are no good, then, and only then, does it choose the invalid direction the ghost came from.
   There is one more problem now.  For some reason the ghosts are choosing to turn around map location 17, which is just off the bottom and an invalid location to turn at so I need to check my code and be certain I am checking their location properly before they choose to turn.  I thought I did but I must have missed something.
   
@4:03PM (0.7.781.4236)
   I found the problem.  It's the copy/paste bug.  I copied some code to re-use it for checking the ghosts paths on the map from code I used for pacman, only I forgot to adjust the code so it checked both the map x and map y co-ordinates for out of bounds checks.  I was only checking in the x (horizontal) direction and not the y (vertical) direction.  Also, one crash ocurred because I forgot to check the boundries in the dir() function.  When the ghosts check for the shortest path between them and pacman they pass  the pacman's co-ordinates to the function, only if the pacman happens to be moving off the edge of the map at the same time they check, it will pass a large value for the map than exists (pacman moves just off the bottom of the map means his map co-ordinate is 17, but the map only goes to 16).  When the dir() function goes to check the array it's actually trying to read out of the array and therefor into memory that isn't allocated for the array, hence the crash.  Anyhow, I added in a few lines of code that adjusts the check so that if X or Y are out of bounds, it adjusts them up or down to the next closest, valid value.  I should have done this in the first place.

   
January 10, 2012 *** HAPPY NEW YEAR *** (okay, a few days late but)
----------------
@3:13PM (0.7.791.4294)
   I came up with the idea of adding in a feature where you can press a button to temporarily increase your character's speed as long as you hold the button down.  You would have so much energy which could be used for each level for this temporary speed up and it would be depleted as you hold the button down.  Once it runs out you can't use it again that level unless you get a pickup/tool that gives you extra energy.  I really like this idea.

@4:29PM (0.8.810.4389)
   I added a speed up function, you press the CTRL key to speed up.  You have 1000 energy that gets depleted as you hold it down.  You get 1000 energy per life, I may change this per level, not sure yet.
   
#9:29PM (0.8.818.4439)
   I adjusted the speed up so that you are limited to 500 energy maximum.  You now start out with zero energy and each pill gives you 10 energy, each powerpill gives you 100 energy.  You keep your energy from level to level and lose it all if you die.  I like this idea a lot, it makes collection the pills more than simply clearing the level, but provides you energy to use when you wish.  This could lead to some intelligent level design where using your energy could be strategic to clear a level.
   I also wish to add in more special effects when you eat a ghost and perhaps some sort of special graphic that indicates where the pickup will be, though I am uncertain about this yet.  Something animated would be nice.
   
   
January 13, 2012
----------------
@4:46PM (0.8.849.4596)
   I done a little editing of the level start up message so that it shows the level number, player number.  I also made it's own function just for this message so it can display more than one line and use different colours like the message did in the first version of this game.  I may change this later, but it looks nice for now.
   This game is starting to look like a nice looking version of the original.  I don't like it, I want this to be a greatly improved version with a lot of it's own features and style.  Similar to the original, but much nicer and almost a different game.  I may have to rethink certain aspects of this.  I may even get drastic and ditch the ghosts and pacman entirely and create a new theme, a new game.  I have thought about changing the ghosts to robots, I already rendered a basic robot that looks kind of nice.  What would I change the main character to, I am not sure.  I do have a new name as well.  It used to be EMO, but that had an alternate meaning I don't like and has been used (EMO MAN) in other games so... I am thinking about "Pacer" which isn't being used by any other game.  I just need to come up with a more unique character, I'll give this more thought.
   
@11:35PM (0.8.861.4667)
   I fixed a couple bugs.  One where the pacman would remain fast if you died on your last life while moving fast.  The other bug was if you collided with more than one ghost, your lives would be decremented once for each ghost you hit, so if you ran into two ghosts at once, you would lose two lives.  I had forgotten to break out of the loop that checked all four ghosts for collisions once one was detected.  I now break out of the loop when a collision is detected that kills pacman.
   I had also hard coded the player's speed into the game, this would have caused problems down the road when I wanted to increase the players default speed so I changed it so that it takes the current speed and multiplies it by 1.5 times when you press CTRL rather than a hard coded value.  This way you will move 50% faster than whatever the current default speed is.  The default speed (the speed you move at when CTRL is not pressed) can be increased by any amount and you will always move 50% faster when CTRL is pressed.  This could get pretty crazy if your default speed gets fast enough!  Should be fun though. :)
   

January 14, 2013
----------------
@3:24AM (0.8.863.4680)
   Added a new function to display the player # and level # when the game starts in a similar manor to the old game.  I couldn't do it with my one line message function.  I'll eventually have to design a more versatile function for messages I think, especially for screens that display credits etc.
   
   
January 22, 2013
----------------
@9:05PM (0.8.866.4703)
   Added in sound effects for the pill and power pill.  I'm using the old one at the moment, though I would like to create something newer and more interesting.  I also plan to add in sound effects for the level start and some other basic things.  I am converting all old WAV samples to OGG format, it's just a better sound format to use and not a windows format, which is a plus right away.
   

January 23, 2013
----------------
@1:01PM (0.8.883.4812)
   I got rid of my display.h header which contained the display settings and merged it into the config.h header and added sound settings to it for toggling sound and music on and off as well as sound and music volume levels.  The struct for DISPLAY has now been renamed to SETTING and will store all game settings, especially ones that need to be saved and loaded.
   I edited the code that reads and writes the configuration file and it now stores the sound and music settings and loads them.  The config functions deal with integers only when saving and loading so I store the volume levels for the sound and music as integers from 0 to 10, then when I load them, I convert them to floating point 0.0 to 1.0, which is what the sound functions all use for volume gain.  This should have the added benefit of making it simple for anyone to edit.  I should probably add in safety checks to make certain the values in the config file are within limits.
   
@11:23PM (0.8.892.4878)
   I added in timer code to limit how long ghosts remain scared and code to start flickering them shortly before they're about to turn back to normal.  It works well and really makes a difference in the difficulty of the game and how you play it.  Next I want to add in more of the sound effects like the background siren that plays when the ghosts are scared and the normal background sound.
   
   
February 5, 2013
----------------
@3:27PM (0.8.893.4888)
   I changed the yellow ghost so that it is now cyan in colour instead.  The player's character is already yellow, so it didn't make sense to also have a yellow ghost.  It looks quite nice, I just needed to load up trueSpace 6, what I used to render them, change the ghost colour, which is easy enough, re-render it, then edit the resulting image so it is the proper size for the game (50x50) etc.  I also needed to change some of the program code so that it draws the ghosts spawn point the proper colours as well.
   
@10:21PM (0.9.901.4926)
   I added in the display of lives so it shows one red heart (new graphics for that too) for each life you have left and one blue heart for each life you lost.  I also raised the amount of lives you can have to 5 total.  I may still lower that number back down to 3, but for now I am trying out 5.  I have put in place a #define that I use for the MAX_LIVES so I can easily change this at my discretion without having to recode all over the place.
   

February 8, 2013
----------------
   No programming done.  Celebrated my 28th anniversary with my lovely wife Wanda, thanks for all the years we have been together.  You are my wife, but you are also my best friend and I will never stop loving you!

   
February 11, 2013
-----------------
@3:43PM (Pace 2)
   Just updated the level editor so the Cyan ghost button name is actually Cyan now and not yellow. ;)
   Hmmm, I am thinking of adding in a screen after every say, 10 levels you earn a point where you can add it to some abilities for your character.  Like, increased speed, increased energy storage, extra lives (start out with a maximum of 3 lives, but with the ability to upgrade it to 4 and then 5).  There's lots of potention here.
   I also need to give the idea of achievments some thought, they are fun to have in any game and allows you to have some acknowledgement of difficult things you have done in the game.
   
   
February 12, 2013
-----------------
@8:00PM (0.9.902.4929)
   I changed the score text so the 1UP is the green text, the score is blue.  The high score will be the red version with blue numbers.
   I want to change the editor, I just thought of a new feature.  One where the first time you click PILL FILL it fills the map with pills, but every other square, leaving a space between them.  The the second time you use it, it will fill the second empty spaces in between, and then back to the first, basically toggling back and forth.  This would allow you to have maps with two different colour pills you could fill with easily, or you could have a map with less pills spaced apart like the original game.  If you wanted all the same pill without spaces, you would simply click PILL FILL twice with the same pill selected.
   
   
February 19, 2013
-----------------
@6:56PM (0.9.946.5174)
   Added an energy bar rather than just numbers.  I originally made it cyan coloured, but I felt that due to the fact I already have a cyan coloured ghost, I should have the bar a colour that isn't used so that there would be no confusion so I chose orange for now.  I may change it, but for now it is unique.
   I also added cheat codes back in so I can properly test the game without dieing etc.  They are the same as with the first game, you add a command line switch "-wanda" to enable them.  They are also enabled automatically when the debug version of the game is run, a version only I have obviously.  At the moment I only have a "God mode" toggle with F9 to enable it, and F10 to disable it.  A small transparent white circle/shield appears when it is enabled and you can move through live ghosts without harm.
   
   
February 22, 2013
-----------------
@12:24PM (0.9.948.5182)
   Changed the score so that it no longer has leading zeros, this looks confusing and can be difficult to quickly check what your score is.  It just feels more "comfortable" to read it without the leading zeros.  This also allows for possible larger scores than what I anticipate.

@2:24PM (PACE 2 & GUI)
   I changed the GUI code so that when new buttons are created, it automatically sets the bitmap variables to NULL before it loads them in.  I had been setting them to NULL before calling the new function which didn't make any sense when the function could set them to NULL by itself before loading.  This cleans up the code a bit and ensures that all new buttons are set to NULL before loading.  I don't know why I didn't do it this way in the first place!
   This is in preparation for creating the main game's menu which will use the same functions I created for use with the level editor to display the menu options.
   I still want to do much more with the GUI system.  It would be nice to improve it a lot more, add more to it for more than just buttons.  I will probably add in a feature to display text files so I can use something like that for HELP, CREDITS and other information screens, perhaps in a popup window on top of the game screen with a scroll bar on the right, or maybe arrows on the top and bottom, hmmm...
   
   
March 5, 2013
-------------
@2:52PM (0.9.964.5252)
   I done a little work on the main menu.  The buttons are being displayed now, but it doesn't work yet.  I had to create a new button for "WEBSITE" which I forgot to create.  It looks good, I just need to add in code so the menu works, mouse is displayed, pick some sort of background image.  I'm also thinking of adding in arror pointers on either side of the menu entries so you can use the keyboard to select menu items as well and just move the arrows up and down the screen.
   
@4:59PM (0.9.972.5301)
   Got the PLAY and QUIT button working.  The play button just starts a single player game at the moment, I need to add in a selection menu where you can set the number of players still.  The rest of the buttons work visually but do nothing at this time.  I definitely need to add in keyboard menu support so the mouse can be totally ignored if desired.


March 6, 2013
-------------
@12:21PM (0.9.987.5383)
   I done more work on the menus.  I added in some code so the buttons stay highlited that were last selected, whether the mouse is over them or not.  This way when selecting with a keyboard you know where you are.  This also required me to add in code to keep track of which button was selected and I was also forced to use pointers, something i don't normally do, and probably should be using more often actually.  I have a BUTTON pointer that points to the last button that was selected.  When a new button is selected, the old button is deselected via the pointer, then the pointer is pointed to the new button struct and it is then activated.  This way I can easily reset the old button.  To do it without pointers would mean far too much code.
   I may redo my BUTTON GUI functions so that they keep track of the buttons and manage them better using perhaps a linked list of all buttons.  This way you could add a button on, it would be added to the linked list and then you could issue a single command to update all buttons added, destroy all buttons etc... without having to do them separately.  I'll have to give this more thought.
   I also added on a nice background for the menu that I had rendered a while back while playing around with trueSpace 6, it looks nice and I think I'll keep it.
   
@1:56PM (0.9.989.5392)
   I added in an array of pointers to each menu button.  This way I can simply reference each BUTTON pointer by the current selection without knowing which button it is.  If I press the down arrow, the selection variable is inc remented by 1 and that is used as an index into the array of pointers to set the appropriate pointer.  What I will do is before I increment selection with "selection++", I will first set the current selection button state to zero so that it is no longer selected with p_select[selection]->state = 0; then increment selection and then set the new button it points to.  This has reduced the amount of code actually and made things MUCH simpler to handle, I am quite pleased.
   
@3:54PM (0.9.996.5427)
   I added in a nice menu select sound effect that plays when you move up and down the menu.
   I had added in a sound effect that plays when you make a selection as well (ENTER or left click a button) but some ideas sound better than they are.  The sound effect gets cut off when you go to play for example so it's pointless.
   
@6:20PM (0.9.997.5430)
   I just realized I am able to use that array of pointers I created that points to all the buttons to actually update all the buttons in one for loop rather than having eight separate commands, one for each button to draw and destroy them, I can have something like:
   for(int i=0; i<8; i++) draw_button(p_select[i]);
   MUCH simpler!  I have always avoided pointers, but now that I understand them much better and am making an effort to use them more, I am really liking them.  I have been able to elimitate many lines of code from my proiject and the less code you have in your project, the less chances you have for errors and the more efficient it becomes as well.

@7:00PM (0.10.1004.5465)
   I disabled the mouse.  This is a keyboard game and I have never really liked using the mouse with it.  There are too many problems involved in programming the game for use with the mouse when it is much more comfortable and natural to just use the keyboard.

   
March 7, 2013
-------------
@12:56PM (0.10.1008.5496)
   I'm going over some of my TODO's today.  The first one I programmed was my wait_for_keypress() function.  I added in the option to wait for a specified number of seconds and then moving on.  So if you wanted it to wait no longer than 5 seconds, it would wait for a keypress for 5 seconds, and if it got none, it would automatically move on as if a key had been pressed.  I used this on my main title screen after it introduces my name "Neil Roy presents", it will wait 5 seconds and move on if you don't press any keys.
   I also added in some code to wait until the person releases the key.  If you pressed ESC for example and held it down too long, you could end up skipping too many screens in a row.  Now when you press ESC, if you are holding it down, it will stop and wait if a key is down and not move on until it is released.  I was surprised that this had no problems, and worked flawlessly.  It's nice when things work the way you wanted the first time around.
   
@3:31PM (0.10.1010.5506)
   I added in points for eating the ghosts, it starts at 500 and doubles for each ghost so you get 500, 1000, 2000 then finally 4000 for a total possible score increase of 7500 if you get all four ghosts in a row without eating another powerpill or dieing.  When you eat a new powerpill the score is reset back to 500 again.
   The game will now give you an extra life every 100,000 points, I may raise this number later on.  You have a maximum of 5 lives you can gain at this time.
   I added in code to check your score against a high score and add it if it is better.  I haven't implemented a system to save the high score or show it yet.  The next thing I plan to do is add in the code to display the high score, then in the future I'll add in the functions for saving it etc.
   
@3:44PM (0.10.1011.5509)
   Add in the code to display the current high score.  It isn't save to disk yet, but it remains as long as the game is running at this time.
   I want to add on a small menu when a person presses ESC from within a game where they can select to save their game, shut down the game or quit to the main menu.  Pressing ESC again would automatically resume the game.
   
   
March 14, 2013
-------------
@11:11AM (0.10.1012.5510)
   Some minor changes.  I had the ghostscore variable that keeps track of the current value for eating a blue ghost initialized in two different locations.  This caused a minor problem when I updated one of them so that it started at a higher point value and didn't update the other one, so in one function it was initialized to 200, the other one it was initialized to 500.  I don't know why I put it in two different spots like that, but I removed it from one of the functions so it is only initialized in one of them.
   I also moved some variables from global to local and just changed it so the variable is passed to the function instead.  I don't mind elimitating simple things like this from being global, but I won't go out of my way to get rid of global variables.  In my opinion it is ridiculous to be having pointers, references and passing variables etc... basically jumping through all sorts of hoops just to avoid a global variable that would make life far simpler.  I, personally, have never had a problem with them.  If I can avoid them without much bother than I will, but if avoiding one means all sorts of reprogramming, than I will use the global instead.
   

March 16, 2013
--------------
@11:27PM (0.10.1012.5510)
   I updated Allegro 5 library from v5.0.8 to v5.0.9.  I also updated Code::Blocks IDE to v12.11.  I use MinGW v4.6.1 TDM to compile.  I would like to use v4.7.1 TDM if I could, but there aren't any prebuilt binaries of Allegro for that compiler and I have too many problems compiling it myself to be bothered.

   
March 22, 2013
--------------
@9:36PM v13.03.22 (2136)
   Note about version.  The auto-version updater stopped working for some odd reason so I am going to implement my own system with the year.month.day (time).  I like this better anyhow, gives you more information on when it was actually created.
   I changed the score font to one that looks more digital, with the same style you would find on a calculator, the older ones with a lit red and green numbers.  It looks REALLY nice, much better than the old one I had.  It was fairly simple to create by hand using Microsoft's paint believe it or not, then resaving it with IrfanView as a PNG (optimized with Ken Silverman's PNGOUT plugin).  Allegro 5 has a really nice way to grab fonts from a bitmap where you can select the range of characters that font represents.  I was able to select numbers (and space) only, saving space as I only had to have THOSE characters I will be using in the bitmap.
   
@10:17PM v13.03.22 (2217)
   I had two different bitmaps for the digital scores, one for each colour and I realized that I just needed ONE greyscale bitmap, white for the score numbers, dark grey for the darker, unlit parts of the numerical display.  With Allegro 5 you can then specify your colour you want and make them any colour at all, which is REALLY awesome.  It also means less bitmaps which means less space wasted on files and memory.
   
   
March 23, 2013
--------------
@12:34AM v13.03.23 (0034)
   When I added in cheat mode, I have it so you can press F9 to turn the shield on, F9 to turn it off (God mode, can't be killed), I set a variable called setting.god_mode to true.  I also set a cheat mode flag, but I forgot to add in code to check to see if you were in cheat mode when you pressed one of those keys, so you could always use them whether you were in cheat mode or not!  I never noticed right away because I have cheat mode automatically enabled when I am compiling the game in debug mode.  I actually tested the game in release mode by accident and then noticed I was able to turn the shield on even though I wasn't in cheat mode.  When you see the FPS (frame rate) at the bottom center of the screen, you know you're in cheat mode (which is actually more properly called "Programmer's test mode" as I use it for testing the game during development).
   

March 24, 2013
--------------
@12:41AM v13.03.24 (0041)
   I got the tiny floating point system working.  This is the system that handles when you see tiny floating points floating up from your character.  I also added in a function to add_points(), this function handles adding on any bonus points etc... you get from having certain tools enabled and floating them where nessecary.  This way when you eat a pill, all I do is call add_points(100, true, false); which tells the function I want to add 100 points, it's a pill and do not float any points by default.  Now the function will check to see if I have various tools enabled.  Lets say I have the X5 tool enabled, it would take this default score and multiply it by 5, then because a tool is enabled that is giving me a bonus score above the normal default score, it will show those points floating up the screen.  The beauty of this is I don't have to think about it, just add on the points and let this function take care of the details.  It will also subtract the total number of pills that are on the level is you tell it the points being added are for a pill being eaten.
   When the points float up the screen, I use a nice feature of Allegro 5 to draw them starting out as solid white and gradually becoming more and more transparent as they float up until they vanish totally.  This looks really nice and I want to play around with much better special effects if I can think of any I want to use, like perhaps particles or something else, but I'm not sure what yet.  I have to do more than the old game, MUCH more and it still doesn't feel like I have done nearly enough of what I wanted to do.

@6:06PM v13.03.24 (1806)
   Added player death animation and sound effects.  I have the old one in for now until I can come up a new idea.  I want to do something new, but I am not sure what exactly.  There's also a GAME OVER graphic and sound, the old ones again <sigh>.  I NEED something new but I just don't have the energy to come up with anything at this time.
   
   
March 26, 2013
--------------
@8:58PM (Pace 2)
   I improved the Pace 2 level editor some more.  I came up with an idea for the Pill Fill feature.  Before it would fill all empty spaces on the map with the selected pill.  I improved it by simply adding in a path check.  So now, IF YOU place the player spawn on the map ahead of time, it will detect the player spawn and then check the path the player can travel and ONLY place pills in empty spaces the player can move to.  If there is no player spawn than it will just fill all empty spaces as usual.
   I also corrected a bug I had introducted when trying to optimize my code.  Some structs weren't being initialized at the start, but would be initialized later on.  BUT, if the editor failed for some other reason, like it couldn't find a file and went to exit the editor, it could potentially crash because it is trying to free up memory that wasn't allocated yet.  So now I made sure I initialized all the variables with some sort of default values (especially NULLs for pointers!), this allows my code to check for NULL before attempting to deallocate the memory.  Otherwise the variables will have some random value in them if you don't initialize them ahead of time leaving you no way of knowing if it has been initialized yet.
   How did you know it would be a problem with a pointer? ;)  You have to be careful with pointers.  They're very powerful, but need to be initialized properly and destroyed properly before exit.
   My next project I think I will take the time to do things using C++, this way as a class, the variables get initialized at creation.  I am slowly starting to see the light. ;)
   I may add in another feature to the level editor to limit the number of powerpills as at the moment, you could make every pill on the map a powerpill if you wished, which would be insane and is VERY noisy in game! heheh.  I may also put limits on placing powerpills next to each other and also make it so that no pills at all can be placed next to a ghost spawn.  I'm thinking also about making it so a player can't move over a ghost spawn and maybe even making some sort of barrier that surrounds all empty spaces next to ghost spawns that only ghosts can move through.  I think I have some ideas for that.  Like if you have two ghost spawns one space apart from each other, the space in between would not have a barrier, but the corners of the barrier which would overlap from each spawn would be converted from corners into straight lines so that they linked up nicely.


March 27, 2013
--------------
@5:05PM v13.03.27 (1705)
   Added al_flush_event_queue(event_queue) before the game waits for keypresses.  This drops all events from the event queue so they if a peson holds down a key like ESC it won't bleed over into other functions and end up processing it as if the person pressed ESC there as well.
   
 
March 28, 2013
--------------
@1:42AM v13.03.28 (0142)
   I recreated the old Pacman character.  Made his eyes bigger and redone his animation.  His quality is much improved.  I also came up with a great idea for a death animation.  I wanted something new and it hit me, when he dies, as his body vanishes, his eye drops off his body and bounces on the ground a couple times.  It's GREAT!!!
   
@3:32AM v13.03.28 (0332)
   I changed the speed of the game so it updates far more often and gets a much higher frame rate.  The next thing I want to do is add back in the dirty rectangle system for older machines.  The game gets over 120 FPS on my system, but is really clunky on my wife's older system.  Dirty rectangles is definitely a much do.  Hmmm.. that is, IF I can do it with Allegro 5.  I'll look into it.
   
@12:42PM v13.03.28 (1242)
   Added in a 1/4 second delay after a person makes a selection at the main menu so they can see the graphic of the button being pressed in.
   
@9:53PM v13.03.28 (2153)
   Worked on speeding the game up as it is laggy on Wanda's computer.  I changed it so the game no longer draw circles for the ghost spawns, instead it blits a premade graphic which looks similar (and much better actually!).  I don't know if this would make a difference in speed or not, but it gives me the option to change what the ghost spawn looks like easily in the future by simply changing the graphic.
   I also reprogrammed the game so that instead of drawing the level itself each and every frame, it draws the level (background + lines) when the level is first loaded, and then  the game simply blits the pre-drawn level bitmap over before drawing the ghosts on top of it.  This cute the time spent drawing the level significantly and I plan on testing the game on Wanda's system again to see if that helped.
   I also locked all bitmap that are used in the game that aren't drawn to as read only which may help with speed.
   

March 29, 2013
--------------
@11:57AM v13.03.29 (1157)
   Cleaned up the player_dies() function.  Now that I have changed how the update_screen() works and it doesn't redraw the level each frame, we can use it for the death animation function and cut out a lot of unnessecary code.  I also added in more comments describing what the code is doing.  I may remember now, but I might not later on.  I have learned the importance of commenting your code.  Certain code is obvious, stuff like player[cplayer].lives--; is obvious and doesn't need commenting, but other bits of code are not as immediately obvious and should be commented.  If not for me, than for someone else in the future.  It's also good practise in case you ever end up working with a team on a project, so they know what you're doing.
   
@12:44PM v13.03.29 (1244)
   Added in a regular ALLEGRO_FULLSCREEN mode now that it is fixed.  It used to have a bug that slowed it down.  I kept t he ALLEGRO_FULLSCREEN_WINDOWED mode in so now you can select which one you prefer in the settings file with 1 for regular fullscreen and 2 for a fullscreen window (as well as a zero for a windowed mode).
   
@3:30PM v13.03.29 (1530)
   I changed how the game updates the screen so that now it redraws it every time a ghost or pacman movement is updated and no longer uses the redraw_timer to update the screen.  The result is a higher frame rate.
   I experimented with getting rid of all but one timer, but it just doesn't work the way I want it, using 3 timers is perfect, the "redraw_timer" is used to update the animation, the pacman and ghost timers are used to control their movement speeds.  This gives me control over each speed independant of the other and keeps all movement smooth.  This game will most definitely have higher minimum system requirements than the last game as it uses more modern hardware accelerate features and I just can't get around that without compromising the quality of the game.  As it is it runs at over 320FPS on my system and I have a cheap GT240 video card and a cheap 3 core AMD, hacked to make it a 4 core, but it was only around $80CDN and that was a few years ago now, same with the video card.  You can get better than what I have now for the same cost, so there's no excuse really.
   I added the Right CTRL key so that it can be used as the speed key as well as the Left CTRL.  I like to sit here sometimes and just play with one hand, fingers on the arrows and thumb on the Right CTRL.
   I may add in the SPACE next and a shield for use with the energy briefly.
   
@4:08PM v13.03.29 (1608)
   I clear the screen and display a "Loading..." message as soon as the display is created and the first font is loaded.  Otherwise the person stares at a blank screen and on some systems the monitor can actually give a message that it isn't getting a signal in fullscreen mode!
   
@8:36PM v13.03.29 (2036)
   Added in a hack to correct a bug with Allegro 5.  When the game is run on Windows XP, the game loses focus as soon as it is run.  I added in some windows specific code (and I hate having to do that!) to bring focus to this game when it is run.
   
   
March 31, 2013
--------------
@11:46AM v13.03.31 (1146)
   I still had the bug with the game (and editor) both losing focus about 3 seconds after it started.  I managed to narrow down what was causing the bug (on my wife's Windows XP/GeForce FX5200 system anyhow).  I still don't know exactly WHY it was happening, but commenting out the line for now solved the problem.  The line causing the problems was:
   al_set_new_display_option(ALLEGRO_SAMPLE_BUFFERS, 1, ALLEGRO_SUGGEST);
   Which tells Allegro you want to use multisampling.  It could be the FX5200 doesn't support it properly or something, but that still doesn't explain why it would cause the game to lose focus.  Ah well, glad it is solved, I simply can't move on to other things when there is a problem like this, it bugs me too much! ;)
   I deleted two lines, both the above and the following line, which sets the number of pixels to sample.  If we're not using ALLEGRO_SAMPLE_BUFFERS than  there's no need to specify ALLEGRO_SAMPLES.  
   al_set_new_display_option(ALLEGRO_SAMPLES, 4, ALLEGRO_SUGGEST);
   I also tested the game in ALLEGRO_FULLSCREEN_WINDOW mode and it looks just fine when everything is scaled up.  The blenders seem to be doing the job just fine.  I also noticed a slight frame rate increase without these lines without any noticable quality difference at all.
   
@6:46PM v13.03.31 (1846)
   Added in an end of level sequence.  It blinks the level on and off (leaving the background intact and just blinking the lines), and then slides the next level in from the right.  It looks nice.  I'm simply using the old end of level sound effects I used (and created) from the last game, but I would like to replace them with something newer.
   
   
April 11, 2013
--------------
@12:00AM v13.04.11 (0000)
   Added in sound volume panning.  I use the system setting variable, adding on a float called pan to  the struct (setting.pan) and then adjust the pan using a ratio which simply divides the level map width by 2.  I then divide the player's position by this ratio and subtract 1 to get a value between -1 (left) and +1 (right), zero being center.  As the player moves around the screen the sound pans from left to right.
   I think I'll work on getting the pickups/tools working tomorrow (today now I guess) after some sleep.  I don't know if I'll get them all working, but I would at least like to get the pickups (food) operating so I have the system in place to handle them.  I can always add in the tools later on if need be, depending on how many headaches I run into programming this.  I don't forsee many problems.  I'll copy lots of code from the old game, modifying it and improving it where needed, but the basics will be the same.  I'll probably organize the tools better, have a better struct and functions to handle them with preset variables describing what they do rather than hard coded.  I may even working on some sort of simple scripting language so I can store tool behaviour in editable files.  It would make it easier to add tools later on.  I'll have to give this some though, perhaps take a day or two and just work on designing such a system.  It would be a good experience for me I think to learn how to do such a thing.
   
@9:19PM v13.04.11 (2119)
  I added in an option to use OpenGL for the game rather than the default Direct3D which is used under Windows.  This could solve any problems people may have running the game, possibly D3D glitches, who knows, I think it is important to add in this option anyhow.
  You can also select 3 different screen modes.  Window (0) which is a normal window, Fullscreen Window (2) which uses your desktop resolution and creates a window that fills the screen without a border and appears like it is a fullscreen.  This can have some advantages, if you have trouble creating normal fullscreen modes.  It also is faster to alt+tab and switch to your desktop.  The only downside is it is a little slower frame rate wise as the game has to stretch the graphics to fit, but you probably won't notice the speed difference with a good video card (cheap cards can handle it without problem).  And finally there is a normal fullscreen mode (1).  This is at it seems, there is no slowdown because your video card sets the actual resolution.
  All of these settings can be easily set by editing the Deluxe_Pacman_2.ini file.  Eventually I'll have most of these settings in the OPTIONS menu, but the ini file will always be available, which could come in handy if for some reason a setting won't let the game run, you can easily edit the ini to disable it.  I may add many more options to the ini file just for this reason.
  I also added an option to the ini file only (not options menu) called "testbed", set it to true (1) to enable cheat mode (programmer's test bed).
  
@10:01PM v13.04.11 (2201)
   Added in more cheat keys so I can better test the game.  I needed the key so I could jump to the next level (PageUP) and I also added in the key to give all 5 lives (F11) as well as the normal keys that already existed to give you a shield (F9) and turn it off (F10).
   I also switched to Allegro v5.1.4, a WIP version.  These were precompiled binaries, so I figured I may as well start using them as they may have fixed bugs that still exist in the release version.  The newest version is currently 5.1.6, but the binaries aren't available and I have too much trouble building them myself.  Although I may try again sometime in the future.
   
   
April 14, 2013
--------------
@1:23AM v13.04.14 (0123) yes... it really was 1:23am! ;)
   I added in some code to Pace 2 level editor to force the filenames to lowercase.  The main reason is that Windows is case sensitive, so if I try and open "level001.dp2" and you save it as "Level001.dp2", it won't find it because the "L" is a capitol.  Silly, but that's Windows for you, so when you save a level with the level editor, no matter how you spell it, all capitals or whatever, the program will automatically convert the text to all lowercase letters before it saves it to ensure it can be loaded by the game.  That is, if you named it level###.dp2, there has to be 3 digits, like "level001.dp2", or "level356.dp2" etc and be within the level range the game currently has, so if the game has 20 levels, it must be 001 to 021 (it can be 021, as when level020 is done, it will automatically search for 21, but it will not search for anything higher, so you can add one beyond the last level if you so choose).
   I may ditch using the Windows dialog and write my own file chooser interface from scratch so I can fully control exactly how it is named to avoid errors.  Like maybe allow the user to select the level number based on the levels available, as I said, if 20 are available, I could allow the user to select a number for the level between 1 and 21 and then the program would save it with the proper filename and extension automatically.
   
 
 May 14, 2013
 ------------
 @11:44PM v13.04.14 (0123)
   No work on the game itself today, instead in preparation for adding in code for the pickups, I decided to redo all the food and tool pickups with all new graphics.  The old ones had a bit of a black border around them because they were not properly anti-aliased.  But now I took high resolution images and properly edited them so they are anti-aliased and should look really smooth against any background without any black border or jagged edges.  I am glad I decided to put in the extra effort as these new graphics look very nice compared to the old ones.
   
   
May 15, 2013
------------
@9:32PM v13.05.15 (2132)
   I added in the code needed to start displaying pickups on screen.  At first my graphics were exactly 50x50 pixels in size and each food image went right to the edge of the graphic which causes problems because I have them all one one large "sprite sheet" and they "touch" each other.  Now with older versions of Allegro this was not a problem, but due to the fact that Allegro 5 is hardware accelerated, some of the blending can cause neighbouring graphics to "bleed" over onto the image being displayed, so I had to make sure there was a thin transparent border around each image to prevent this.  Plus 50x50 was a pixel or two too large for some maps and reducing them a tad would look a little nicer.  To do this I loaded them into photoshop one at a time (I really need to learn to do scripting for these tasks!), and I first reduced the image size from 50x50 to 48x48, then I increased the canvas size back up to 50x50.  The canvas size doesn't effect the image itself, just the overall size of the image, that is to say, if you make it larger, it adds empty space around the border, anchoring the main image to the center or sides as you prefer, so this way I basically added a transparent border around each image and reduced the main image size just enough so they fit and prevent bleeding over to neighbouring graphics so I can continue to use sprite sheets.  Once these sprite sheets are loaded into the game I then have an array of images, one for each food pickup and I create a sub-bitmap for each one, it's basically like a "pointer" which points to an area on a main image and you can use it like a separate image.  This way I only have to load ONE image rather than 35, it also saves on disk space etc, it's just good practice I think.
   Next I need to add in code so your character can eat the pickup and get points as well as code in the tools.  I have some code for the tool's appearance in game, but I need to redo the graphics for them and what not first.  Oh yes, I also created a new sound effect for the pickups/tools using a sound effect generator.  I like this generator because it makes the game have a more retro sound to it, but still sounds great.  I borrowed some code from the old game for the pickups as it is pretty basic stuff, no sense re-inventing the wheel when I don't have to.  I just reprogrammed it to fit how I am doing things now.  I found some ways to improve it quite a bit, it's funny how I see so clearly ways to make it better that I didn't back then.  I guess that's experience at work.
   I added in a sound effect when you make a menu selection.  I loaded it into Audacity (free sound effect editor) and checked the running time on it as well as saved it as an OGG (like MP3, only better and free).  I then added in a short al_rest() after you make a selection that is the same length of rest as the sound takes to play (0.75 seconds) before it exits.  The main menu is self contained, it loads it the sound samples it needs etc... then unloads and frees up the memory when it is done.  I want to do this more often to conserve how much memory the game takes up while it runs to reduce problems with people's systems who may have limited resources.
 
 
May 16, 2013
------------
@3:04PM v13.05.16 (1504)
   Yay! \o/  I got the code in so you can grab pickups with no problem and it works perfectly the first time, got to like it when things work without errors  the first time you implement them.  For now I am using the same sound effect you hear when you eat a blue ghost, I may create a special sound effect just for pickups and tools, but for now it sounds nice.
   I am also thinking about adding in a special effect for behind the pickups/tools, some sort of glowing light that moves (rotates), perhaps two lights rotating in opposite directions, like you see when you look at a weather report and how they have an animated sun, something like that could look nice if done right.  I'll have to experiment with different ideas.  I may also create a simple round pad, like the ones used to indicate the location of the ghost spawns, to show where the pickup spawns, maybe just a plain white colour rather than leaving it blank.  Or I may create something unique for it as well, but I am uncertain what, maybe a star of David style shape.


May 20, 2013
------------
@11:31AM v13.05.20 (1131)
   Added in code so that the food pickups now give you 100 energy as well.  I lowered the amount of energy a powerpill gives you from 100 down to 50 as I feel food should give you more energy than the powerpill.  Plus the powerpill already gives you the benefit of turning the ghosts blue, so I want to balance things a little so they make more sense.  It also provides a greater temptation to grab the food when it appears as early on they are not worth as much, but at higher levels pickups are worth quite a bit.
   
May 29, 2013
------------
@1:26PM v13.05.29 (1326)
   I changed the game so that it defaults to VSYNC being on.  On older machines the game's video update will appear laggy without VSYNC on due to how the game updates now.  You can still disable it in the options if you prefer but this was needed in order to make the game run smoothly on older systems.  It also runs best in a window on older systems, so it defaults to that as well.  All these settings can be changed as usual (currently in the INI file, but in the game's config menu later on as well).
   The game runs smoothly with any setting on modern systems, this was just an issue with my wife's computer which is older.

@2:24PM v13.05.29 (1424)
   Added in some rules to the top of my dp2_main.c file explaining my coding style for this project, in case I ever release it in the future, it's good to have a uniform style for a project to avoid confusion and problems.
   Code syntax  : I use the K&R style unless otherwise stated.
                  Indentations are 3 space (spaces not tabs).
                  All filenames have the first letter of each word in
                  the filename capitalized and use spaces to separate
                  words.  Extensions are in lower case.
                  "if" and "for()" do not need braces if they're only on
                  one line, but they do if they're on separate lines.
                  Braces for commands are placed so the opening brace is
                  on the same line as the command and the final brace is
                  on a line of it's own.
                  variables are in lower case using an underscore _ to
                  separate words like_this.
                  
@3:42PM v13.05.29 (1542)
   Recompiled the game using new Allegro v5.1.7 binaries.  Still using MinGW 4.6.1, I hope to someday soon get MinGW 4.7.1 installed, but I won't do it until someone builds a version of Allegro for it, and so far the only build I have didn't include Physf support. :(
   

May 30, 2013
------------
@11:23AM v13.05.30 (1123)
   I added in a check so you can press one of your arrow keys at the start of a level to choose which direction you will go right away rather than trying frantically to turn around once the level has started which can prove hazardous.  You can start in any of the four directions, right (default), left, up or down, even if it is facing a wall.  Right after the game exits the function which waits for a keypress, it checks  the event variable for the keyboard to see which key was pressed and responds accordingly.
   
@11:43AM v13.05.30 (1143)
   Changed a bunch of if...else if etc... statements to a much smaller, cleaner looking switch() statement.  It's interesting how you start out with one test with an if(), then you add in more if()s and else's etc... the next thing you know you have several lines of them when one nice switch() will do the trick.  In this case, I kept adding in new if()s to check for various different keys as I added them into the game and all it was doing was setting a variable which tracks the key presses to true or false with one exception (ESC).  So here I had several lines of if()s all doing what one line could do in a simple switch() statement.  So I changed the old code so that special case's like ESC were handled with a switch()/case statement for that key, and all the rest were handled with the switch()'s DEFAULT command which just sets the keypress to true or false.  In this way I don't have to worry about handling new keys unless there is something special I need to do. I don't need to add them in as they are ALL handled no matter what.  I will now that the variable tracking them will be handled and I can simply add in code to react to that key as desired.  This is much cleaner code.  I don't know why I didn't think of it sooner.  Out of practice I guess.
   
@1:58PM
   I also optimized my path finding function for my ghosts so that it sets limits while scanning for a path so that it doesn't scan the entire map each pass through the loop when it doesn't have to.  Instead there is a minimum and maximum X and Y values so that it scans a small area on the map immediately surrounding the destination and then expands the area that is needed to scan each pass through the loop.  This shaved off a little time it was spending in there.  It is less noticable on my machine, but on slower machines this could smooth out the game a little bit, and every little bit counts.
   
@3:18PM
   I was thinking some more about my path finding function for my ghosts and I realized that I could probably improve it further by adding in an array to keep track of map cells which have already been set so that if they are scanned a second time, it will skip the tests for them entirely.  This could balance  things out for it as the area it has to scan grows larger, the number of cells it skips would also grow larger so that it wouldn't take quite as long to scan.  There's no sense resacanning map locations that have already been checked.  I'll have to think about this more, but some form of this idea will definitely be implemented.
   
   
May 31, 2013
------------
@7:37PM
   Okay, scratch that last idea I had about tracking the map cells.  I already skip cells that don't need to be set, I forgot I done this so the last idea about tracking them would be pointless. :/


June 12, 2013
-------------
@12:20AM
   I worked on the source code itself and reformatted it so that all if(), for() and other such statements have braces.  I have an old habit I am trying to break of not using braces {} for single line if() and for() loops when I should always use them just to be safe.  I also reformatted the text so that there are spaces on either side of operators.  What I still refuse to do is to use spaces before and after all brackets like:  if ( x = 1 ) y = 1;
   For that line it looks okay, but when you got tons and tons of code, some lines can get a bit lengthy when you do that and I don't think it is nessecary to press SPACE after every character I type.  instead I do things like: if(x = 1) y = 1;  I used to do if(x=1) y=1; which is too compact, an old habit from my C64 days where spaces made a difference with limited memory. I have started to add in spaces on either side of operators, but that is as far as I will go.  I don't think function calls should have a space between the function name and the brackets, to me that makes it look more like a variable at first glance.  I have seen some use my_function ()  rather than my_function().  The former way with the space looks ridiculous in my opinion.
   I also put the opening brace of a loop, while etc... on the same line as the command, like:
   if(x = 1) {
   // do stuff here
   }
   rather than...
   if(x = 1) 
   {
   // do stuff here
   }
   ...to me this wastes vertical space.  It's fine for small example programs, but not for large projects, basically I use the K&R style.  But I am trying to stick to one style and not mix things up at all so my code is easy to understand and clean looking.  I guess it doesn't really matter what style you settle on, the important thing is that you are comfortable with it and you stick to it without mixing styles up in your code so people can easily follow what you have once they understand the style you use.
   I also redone all my file names so they now use the following convention: Filenames will have each word in the filename start with a capital letter (uppercase), there will be no spaces, instead, they will use an underscore _ between words, the extension will be in lowercase like this: My_Picture.png.
   All local functions are set as static, so there is guaranteed to be no conflicts.  variables are all lower case with underscores separating words.  Functions are also all lowercase with underscores.  structs, typedefs and macros are all UPPERCASE with underscores.  All functions that take no arguements contain a (void) rather than ().
   
   
July 29, 2013
-------------
@7:17PM v13.07.29 (1917)
   Fixed a bug in the game.  I haven't got a clue when I introduced this one as it worked just fine before this, but somewhere along the way I accidentally put MAXX instead of MAXY in one of my tests in my dir() function which caused a bug if you wrapped around the screen vertically, it would crash the game.  This is fixed now anyhow.

@8:06PM v13.07.29 (2006)
   Fixed a few variable names, the font_* variables all had capital letters in them, switched them to all lowercase as per my new coding style.  This will make it easier to avoid problems in the future, if I need to remember a variable name, I know right away it is all lowercase with underscores and reduce errors.
   Added in CHEAT keys for F1-F4 which turn ghosts blue and added in a new cheat key, F5, which gives you maximum energy.  These are fun for players, but they are also vital for testing.  I just fixed a bug today where I used these keys to turn on shields (F9) so I didn't die, then switch to a level (PAGE_UP) that had vertical wrap so I could test the bug out quickly without dieing or playing through several levels first.
   On my TODO list, I would like to change my collision detection from using bounding box to use radial collision detection instead for player/enemy collisions.  What this type of collision does is it basically checks the distance between the player and enemy using a circular radius and then checking to see if the sum of the two radius' is less than the distance between them, if so, you have a collision.  I would still use bounding box for the level collision itself, just use this for player/enemy collisions instead as with bounding box you can have premature collisions if the player and enemy are on a diagonal from each other, which doesn't matter with a level wall; collision will be detected sooner due to the corners being closer which wouldn't happen with a radial collison.
   
   
August 1, 2013
--------------
@1:26PM v13.08.01 (1326)
   I changed the collision detection from bounding box collision, to circular collision.  The difference is that in bounding box collision you first place a rectangular box around two object you wish to test for collisions, you then check to see if these boxes overlap, if they do than the objects have collided.  For most things this is fine, but if you have characters in your game that are more round, or circular as mine are, than you will get false collisions if they overlap diagnolly as there are no corners on them and so diagonal overlaps will most likely just be empty space.  The best solution for this is to use a circular collision, which is just as simple to implement as bounding box, perhaps even easier in fact.  You simply take a radius which you are comfortable with on each object and check the distance between the two objects.  If the distance between the two objects is less than the sum of their two radiuses than you have a collision.  The math to do this is very simple.  First you subtract the distance of object1's x from object2's x and get the distance of x, then you do the same for y.  Then you get the absolute value of the square root of (distx*distx)+(disty*disty) and if that is less than or equal to the sum of the two radiuses than you have a collision.  It's easier than it sounds and there is not much code involved at all, it's very fast in fact. Trust me, I am not that good in math so if I can understand it, you can! ;)
   Anyhow, I am quite pleased with this.  I didn't like the diagonal collision problems I was seeing, and this has worked out perfectly.  Bad collisions were one of the main complaints of the first game which has even worse collision detection that bounding box.

@2:42PM v13.08.01 (1442)
   I added in radius members to the pacman and ghost structs so I can adjust the radius of each one individually to make it more accurate.  I allowed about 4 pixels for overlap as pacman and ghost just barely touching simply didn't feel right and I felt they had to overlap a little bit before a collision was flagged.
   
@4:44PM v13.08.01 (1644)
   I added in code to check if the player was moving while they pressed the energy button (currently CTRL key) so that if the game detects that they are not moving than it will not use up energy.  This way you won't suddenly use up all your energy because you got stuck against a wall and had a hard time turning around and forgot to let go of the energy button.  In this way, it will also not use more than one energy per pixel you travel, no matter how fast the game runs.
   I also discovered why sometimes you go to turn and the player keep going the same direction and misses a turn.  This can happen if you're holding down two keys at the same time.  If you are pressing left and you wish to suddenly turn up, but you don't let go of left, you may just continue left, it all depends on the order that the game checks the keys.  There is no need to hold down keys in this game, just tap  the direction you wish to go and then let go of the key.  There is simply no way to program around this without introducing other problems.
   
@8:26PM v13.08.01 (2026)
   OKay...aparantly there WAS a way around the keyboard problems I mentioned.  I came up with a solution where I made my key_pressed[] array into a struct which contains a bool which tells if the key is pressed and a double which contains the TIME it was pressed!  That is, the time Allegro has since the game started.  Then when the cursor keys are pressed, and if two at a time are pressed, it will execute the instructions for the most recent keypress based on the time they were pressed at!  It works like a charm.  It's still not good to hold down keys, but if you do, it shouldn't be much of a problem.
   
@11:36PM v13.08.01 (2336)
   I installed MinGW v4.7.0-1 and Allegro v5.1.7 built for this version of MinGW and then recompiled the game and the editor and it all works like a charm.  I also used the -std-c11 flag to indicate I am now compiling 100% with the 2011 C Standard (no C++ for this guy, at least not with this project anyhow).

August 2, 2013
--------------
@7:58PM
   I realized a mistake I made with this version.  I have a separate LEVEL variable for loading the levels and I completely forgot that I need to be loading them into  the player data struct!  I changed the old struct there is a LEVEL member that will contain ALL the level data and I will remove the separate LEVEL variable I had created (outside the player struct).  I also realized a better way to change all pills to diamonds, rather than physically changing the level data to diamonds which would require a copy of the level data so I could convert them back to pills again, I will simply check to see if diamonds are enabled when I draw the map, if they are I will draw a diamond instead of a pill.  I don't know why in the world I didn't think of this before!  Then once diamonds are no long enabled, the pills will simply be drawn as they normally would, no altering the original map data, no making a copy of it needed.  This is faster and much more efficient and far simpler.  It's strange how you see things differently after reprogramming this many years later.  Experience I guess <shrug>.


August 3, 2013
--------------
@12:45AM v13.08.03 (0046)
   Okay, I done a lot of work since 8pm yesterday until just past midnight working on adding in TOOLs again and it seems to be working, I have diamonds working again, just working on some different sound effects for it and a the other tools still need to be done, but it is getting there.
   

August 4, 2013
--------------
@11:29PM
   I done a lot of rewriting the code that handles input to clean it up a bit and change the way it handles direction keys.  I got rid of the idea of storing the time a key was pressed in favour of simply setting a variable to the direction and then acting upon the new direction during the next pacman event.  I started to have input code mixed in with my pacman event handler and I didn't like that, I want to keep these separate, so the input code is all together and simply sets a variable which can be handled by the event later on.
   Now I am having trouble with the code which times the pickup and tool appearances.  This is what happens when you copy old code from the old game rather than rewriting it from scratch. ;)  I'll end up rewriting parts of it from scratch, I need to rethink how I used to do it.  It looks kind of messed up and there is a bug with it  that only appears in THIS Game because of the new library, how it handles events and the timing is MUCH different so... I'll work on that tomorrow, it is late now and my cat won't stop meowing (she's 19 1/2 years old and is a cranky old fart) so I can't concentrate, but I have some new ideas that should work better.  I'll need a fresh mind to work on them though.  This is the unfun part of programming. ;)
   
   
August 13, 2013
---------------
@8:50PM
   I was helping some people on the Allegro forums when I noticed I had forgotten to update my Level editor savemap() function.  The loadmap() function uses Allegro 5 functions to read in data from the open level file like al_getc() but I forgot to change the savemap() function to use the Allegro 5 functions and instead they used putc() rather than al_putc().  I had also forgot to check the return value when a file is opened for saving and aborting on error, which could lead to a potential crash, that is now fixed.  I also didn't recompile the editor since I changed over to the new 2011 C standard, so I cleaned all the old files and rebuilt them all from scratch using the new standard, to be safe.
   
   
August 14, 2013
---------------
@12:50PM
   I'm reformatting my code a little again.  I just can't get comfortable with a single line if() statement taking up 3 lines with {} when it can all fit on one line.  In some sections of my code this can lead to quite a bit of vertical space wasted.  I know, I'm fickle, but it's just not something I will ever be comfortable with.  I am changing single line if() statements back to what I like... for example:
   if(a = 1) {
      b = 2;
   }
   That is a waste of vertical space when it can just as easily be written:
   if(a = 1) b = 2;
   That makes more sense to me, it's easy to read and understand, doesn't waste space and if you can't figure out that you need {} if you plan to add more lines to it, than you need to take up knitting and leave programming to others. ;)
   I am also changing all my sprintf()s to snprintf() to protect from buffer overflows.  snprintf() takes a value that is the maximum size of the text buffer and won't go over that, where as sprintf() has that risk, so just to be safe, I am switching.  I also #define TEXT_BUFFER to 4096 as my buffer size and use that macro for this.  It will make it easier if I decide to alter the value in the future.

@4:44PM v13.08.14 (1644)
   I reprogrammed the tool and pickup timers with new code.  The code I had used for the old game just didn't work well with Allegro 5 timers and the way I do things so I had to rewrite them.  They're much better now and work perfectly.  I have pickups and tools appearing properly now and am just starting to add in the code to properly respond to the tools when you pick them up and give you the bonuses expected.
   The new timer code is simple, is basically just copies the current redraw timer value into the pickup and tool counter variable (and I may merge these into just one counter as there is no need for two separate counters), then as the game runs, and the redraw timer increments naturally, it compares the last stored counter with the current redraw timer and when a certain amount of time has passed (indicated by pickup and tool maxtime variable, again, I may merge this as well) then a new pickup or tool appears (basically if(redraw - counter = maxtime) than spawn a new pickup/tool.  Pretty simple.  All I needed to do was to fiddle with the maxtime number (and a number for how long the pickup/tool remains on the screen once it spawns) and all was set.  I may play with this more, figure out how I can make a macro to more easily adjust the values depending on how fast redraw is updated so that if I change that in the future I won't have to go back and tweak it again, I doubt that will happen though.
   
@5:07PM v13.08.14 (1707)
   Added more tools in.  Programmed in so you can also use the keypad direction keys to move as well as the cursor keys.

@8:15PM v13.08.14 (2014)
   Added in cheat keys for X2, X5 and SHIELDS tools so I could properly test them out.  I also increased the size of the floating points font up to 16 point from 14 so it looks a little larger and nicer when the game is windowed.  I plan to increase the points needed to get a free life up to 200000 or more due to the large amount of points you can easily get in this game.
   
@9:40PM v13.08.14 (2140)
   Changed the RING tool to AUTISM tool using the Autism puzzle logo.
   
@10:24PM v13.08.14 (2223)
   Changed the order in which the game draws the ghosts and pacman, it used to draw the pacman first then the ghosts, which wasn't a problem as when pacman died, the ghosts weren't drawn at all, but I changed my mind on this as sometimes you can't tell which ghost killed you if one suddenly spawned next to you and that is what killed you so I decided to draw the ghosts during the death animation and as a result, I changed the order so that pacman is drawn last so that he is drawn over top of the ghosts so you can see the animation clearly.  Also, if you eat a blue ghost the pacman character really should be on top of them so it looks like they disappear behind him or inside him.
   
   
August 15, 2013
---------------
@3:31AM v13.08.15 (0324)
   I got done successfully adding in the EXTRA bonus life code.  The new code is far more efficient than  the old code, I don't know why I did it the way I did in the first place, I guess it's just experience.  I am doing away with loading in extra smaller graphics for the letters that appear at the bottom that show which ones you have collected and instead I am simply taking the 50x50pixel EXTRA letters and "shrinking" them down with al_draw_scaled_bitmap() which can resize any bitmap.  This is far better, easier and saved on memory and load time, though not by much, every little bit adds up.  Also, the Allegro 5 functions do a really nice job at scaling and use hardware acceleration.  There's also less work on my part as I have to create one graphic in the first place.  There are, as usual, working cheat keys for each corresponding EXTRA letter, keys E, X, T, R and A, when cheat mode is enabled, will cause the next tool/pickup to be that character (unless you already have it, in which case it will default to a random pickup).
   I moved the high score over to the right more so it is more symmetrical looking, this also made room for me to move the FPS display to the top centre when it is active which in turn freed up the space at the bottom centre to display the EXTRA letters you have collected.
   Tomorrow (later on today now I guess), I will implement the timer bar on the right side that is active while you are using a tool as well as continue the work to get the other tools working.
   
   From around noon and throughout the rest of the day I mainly worked on new Tool graphics for this version of the game.  I'm trying not to reuse old graphics too much and come with something newer and nicer if possible as well as maybe some new tools.  A have a few new ideas.
   
   
August 16, 2013
---------------
@2:52PM
   I plan to start off today by doing some programming.  Yesterday I had a lot of fun working on new tool graphics using trueSpace 6 and Photoshop.  The first thing I want to do is implement the tool timer graphic that shows up on the upper right side of the screen when a tool is active.  I also may implement a new variable that sets a limit on how long tools stay active.  I just realized the other day that they currently stay active until the next tool/pickup is ready to spawn, which isn't too bad, but if I ever wish to make it so that there is more time between spawns, I can't have tools active for that long.  I definitely need greater control over this to make the game more flexible.
   
September 1, 2013
-----------------
@2:59PM v13.09.01 (1458)
   I came up with a solution for adjusting the pitch of the background2 sound effect (background siren that plays when ghosts turn blue).  I can't adjust the pitch on the fly as you eat pills without doing a major overhaul of all my code, and even then, it's iffy.  I absolutely HATE the way they changed the sound system in Allegro 5, they made it overly complicated to do something simple like changing the sound pitch, in Allegro 4 it was easy, in 5 you have to micro manage EVERYTHING yourself.  They complain about Microsoft forcing features on people in Windows that they don't want, then turn around and do the very same thing with their library!  "Well WE think it is better so..." well, if the people who use your library don't like it, than it's not better.  If I could reprogram the library to do it myself I would, but I am not experienced with this library and the code is scattered all over the place in it so... I am screwed.  I may look into the SDL library in  the future, see if it is any better.
   In any case, I came up with an acceptable solution, and that is every 25 pills that are eaten below 150 pills, the game will stop the current background sound then replay it at a new pitch.  It's not as nice as the smooth transition I liked from the old Deluxe Pacman with Allegro 4, but it's the best I can do.  I'm not going to rewrite all my sound code, throw in a ton of new code to manage the playing of sounds just so I can adjust the pitch of ONE SOUND SAMPLE... it's absolutely STUPID!!!  I am seriously considering giving up on programming much more beyond this and taking up a new hobby.  I just haven't got the patience for this anymore, the people that maintain Allegro 5 simply will not listen to reason, you may as well talk to a brick wall.
   I also fixed a bug where a new tool or pickup would appear even though your character was dead.  While the death animation was playing one could appear, I adjusted the code to fix that and another potential problem that was similar.
   
@9:17PM
   I just got done remaking the graphics for the tools.  I added in GLUE (slows Ghost movement), SPEED (speeds up Pacman) and TIME (gives more tool time).  I'll have to redo the way the time limits on tools operates before I can add code for the TIME tool, but it shouldn't be too much of a problem (famous lasts words).  The graphics are looking quite nice, I redone all the old graphics, some quite a bit different (the shield is now a bible) and some only a little different.
   Now I just need to redo the ENUM that I have for the names of all the tools so it is in order.  I use an ENUM with tool names so that I refer to tools by name rather than by number and in this way the order in which they are stored in the graphic is based on the order  they are in the ENUM, but all other places in the game, I can just call them by name and not worry about which tool number they are.  It makes life MUCH easier if I change the tools and the order they are in gets changed around, I ONLY have to redo the ENUM and nothing else in my code!  Saves a LOT of work!
   
   
September 2, 2013
-----------------
@4:11PM v13.09.02 (1611)
   I completed the shield tool, which now shows up as a Holy Bible, if you grab it you hear an angelic choir sound effect and gain the shield.  The shield is a new graphic I whipped up to look like this glowing circular effect protecting you.  I really like it.
   I added in Pink Diamonds, made their value 2000 points each, the Blue Diamonds are 1000 points each and I added a Diamond sound effect when you grab them.
   I added in a clip from the Canadian National Anthem for a sound effect when you grab the gold leaf.
   Lots more to do.  I am thinking about MAYBE adding in a sound effect for when the present is active, I am uncertain about that yet.
   I also added in a new X7 (times 7) tool which does as it states, multiplies your score by 7, much like the X2 and X5 tools.
   And of course, I added in some cheat keys to test some of these out.
   
@11:59PM v13.09.02 (2356)
   Added in code for the skull tool.  If you grab it, you will die, even if you have the shield or cheat mode on.  This was a necessary tool to have in order that there was a potential danger in grabbing the random tool.  You have a chance of getting the skull tool and dying.  It's also fun for new players to discover what it does for the first time. I know... I'm mean. ;)
   I re-organized the code for the tools so that they are in order.  This wasn't necessary, they can be in any order due to how I designed it, but I prefer them to be in order anyhow so that I can see if I missed any of them.
   
   
September 3, 2013
-----------------
@11:22AM v13.09.03 (1122)
   I added in shadows for the floating numbers you see when you eat blue ghosts, or eat a pill with one of the tool active.  It looks quite a bit better and makes the numbers a little easier to read.
   I changed the sound effect you hear when you get a new life.  I may change it to something louder, but for now it sounds nice.
   I created a new, simple beep sound effect for use when you get the BONUS tool.   This tool will load up a new special BONUS map that has no powerpills.  If you clear it you get a free life and bonus points.  If you die, you exit the bonus map, but you don't lose a life.  When you first grab the BONUS tool, the current level clears all the remaining pills one at a time, playing this new beep sound for each one it clears and giving you 100 points per pills remaining, then it proceeded to load in the bonus map.  When the bonus map ends, you move on to the next normal level.
   
@415PM v13.09.03 (1615)
   Added in the Dynamite tool with a new explosion sound effect.  You gain 5000 points per ghost that dies and see small floating points that float up from where the ghost died.  Looks nice.
   I also added in the Freeze tool which stops the ghosts cold.  I created an ice cube that is drawn on top of the ghosts so they look frozen.  They cannot hurt you if you touch them while they are frozen, but you can eat them if they are scared (blue), just watch that timer.  I want to see if I can find a nice sound effect to go along with them freezing if I can.
   
@5:11PM v13.09.03 (1711)
   Found a nice sounding freeze sound effect, it's subtle but works great, I am pleased! :)
   

September 5, 2013
-----------------
@1:09am v13.09.05 (0108)
   I wanted to add in the JUMP tool which jumps to a random level, but I realized I had one small problem, this version of the game didn't know how many levels it had!  The old game did, but the old game only knew what levels it had that it came with, it never took into account new, user made levels.  Well, this version does all that now.  It took me a while to figure out due to other problems (it was actually easy to implement).  I have the game scan the data file for levels, then when it is done there, it scans the directory where the game is for additional levels that may be user made or otherwise that are numbered higher than the top level number stored in the data file.  If a user level number is the same as one stored, than it is not counted as only one of the two can be loaded.  The main concern here is the level numbers and what the largest level number is (in sequence, you can't skip numbers).  Once we have all of those, the game can then use that figure to randomly choose one of them, and that includes user levels!  I realized this is actually a bit of a bug with the old game, IF a user makes a level that is higher numbered than the highest numbered level that is built into the game, and grabs a jump tool, that will be jumped BACK to one of a randomly selected level in the range of the levels that comes with the game, not including the user levels so this system works much better.
   Anyhow, I got all that working, it jumps just fine.  I did notice a minor bug, if you're holding down CTRL when you jump (speeding along) with some energy left, you will still be moving fast without CTRL held down at the start of the next level!  I figure I probably need to just clear the event queue or perhaps the key array, I'll check that later on today.
   I just need to add on four more tools and I'll be done with the tools I had planned for now, then it will be on to working on the unfinished menu items.  Almost done the game though, I may even release this for free, I am uncertain, but I do have bills to pay so I don't know yet.  The last game I had a LOT of requests for changes and additions to the game, I worked hard to make sure it worked for everyone, changed the font so that foreigners could use their own characters of their language, you name it... lots of problems helped via email you can't imagine and I got very little to show for it, and let me tell you, this is not always fun, especially working out problems.  If I don't charge anything and let this go free, I won't be giving out an email or support this time around as I want to move on to something totally different.  The only way I will support this once I am done is if I get paid.  But I DO want to finish this before I move on, it is difficult some days though.
   
@4:54pm v13.09.05 (1654)
   I created a screenshot (a5_screenshot) function from scratch that works like a charm.  It saves a screenshot with the date and time in a similar style as World of Warcraft (only I have the full year like 2013 rather than 13).  I am quite happy with this as it is a portable function which I can use with any Allegro 5 game I make. :)

   
September 11, 2013
------------------
@4:58PM v13.09.11 (1657)
   I added in the GUN tool, it works and shoots fine, I had to recode the way my pacman moves as the guns bullet uses the pacman's movement to determine direction and speed it travels at.  When sitting still the bullet never moved, so I had to fix that.  I just need to add in collision detection for the bullet so it operates fully as intended.
  
@7:54PM v13.09.11 (1954)
   I got the bullet (for the GUN tool) collision working perfectly, in fact, I improved upon it a little.  In the past I had hard coded certain values into the game where as now I make now assumptions what so ever.  I query the size of the bitmaps, then do some simple math which figures out at what distance a collision would take place.  In this way, at anytime I can change the size of the graphics without having to recode the game.  I also used to have bullet code scattered all over my game.  It was difficult tracking it all down so in this version all the bullet related code for spawning a new bullet, moving it and checking it's collision is inside it's own function.  If there is ever a problem with it, I only need to check that one function rather than trying to recall how I did certain things.  It's funny to look back at my old code from when I first got started making this and seeing all the mistakes I made.  The game worked okay, but the code was sloppy, and probably still is in certain respects, but I made an effort to plan this out then try my best to make things a little more organized and easy to find.  You see, when you make a project, you know how it all works because you just got done coding it, and you never see a day when you don't know, but it will come!  You will grow bored of this project or something else will take up your time and you WILL FORGET how you done things.  The best defense is to comment the code where needed, even if you know what it does, and keep it as neat and organized as possible, this also helps with tracking down bugs faster and easier.
  
@9:51PM v13.09.11 (2151)
   I programmed the GLUE and SPEED tools in, when you grab the glue, the ghosts will slow down to half their speed while the timer counts down, and if you grab the speedup tool, you will travel 150% faster (and CTRL still makes you go 150% faster than whatever your current speed is, so you can really fly if you use speed plus energy to move!!!)  This was relatively easy to add in, I just needed to change the timer for either one and make sure it was reset when time for the tool ran out (or the player died).
  
  
September 12, 2013
------------------
@8:16PM v13.09.12 (2016)
   Fixed a small bug with the CTRL speed boost where if you were using CTRL to move faster at the moment the level ended for you, when you started the next level you would continue to move fast until you burned off all your energy or tapped the CTRL key.
   I also added in the TIMER tool.  When you see a stopwatch appear and grab it, it causes all tools that you grab that have a time limit on them, like the gun for example, to last longer (right up until the next tool is due to appear).  This works out to about 25% more time on all tools.  This sticks with your character until it dies.
   I just need to code the game so it doesn't appear again for you if you already have it.  I also want to have a small version of the stopwatch appear somewhere on the game screen to indicate that it is active, perhaps on the bottom to the left of where EXTRA letters appear.  I may also cause a small version of certain tools that are active (with a time bar on the right) to appear just above or below the green timer, so you know which tool is active.
   
   
September 19, 2013
------------------
@11:43PM v13.09.19 (2342)
   I FINALLY added in the BONUS level tool!  It required quite a bit of reprogramming to implement it and my brain almost exploded trying to think of all the possible outcomes and how to handle them without the player losing a life etc.  But I got it working.  When you get a BONUS tool, you jump to a special BONUS level, there are no pickups or tools that appear on it, just a level filled with pills.  If you manage to clear it without dying, you get 50000 points and an extra life!  Sounds great, but it's not easy at all to clear!  At the moment there are no powerpills on it, but after trying and failing to clear the levels without them, I decided to add in ONE powerpill on each level.  The catch is, you won't know which pill is the powerpill, and you ONLY get one, so if you know where it is, use it wisely!  I firmly believe that, while difficult, it will be possible to clear the BONUS levels,but it will require a lot of skill (like luring the ghosts into a confined area, then leaving it, basically getting them to follow you or get trapped).  Either way, if you manage to clear one of these you should feel proud and you will have earned the extra points and life.  You also get all points for pills that were remaining on your old level and you always get the bonus points for clearing a normal level when you return from the bonus level.  Oh, if you die on a bonus level, you don't lose a life either, you just exit the bonus level... so you have one chance to clear it, that's it.  I am very proud to have gotten  this implemented finally.  I saved it until last because I knew it would be a large programming task requiring much thought, and it was, and it did. ;)
   
   
September 20, 2013
------------------
@1:29AM v13.09.20 (0128)
   I noticed then when you grabbed the BONUS level tool you didn't hear the sound effect of the level coming in, so I changed some code I had put in place to stop all sound samples playing to instead only stop any of the looping background sounds playing (which was what my lazy stop all samples call was for in the first place).  This stopped ALL samples, including the one playing for the new bonus level coming in, now it does as it was originally intended.  The four bonus level all now have a hidden power pill on them somewhere.  I plan to add in more bonus levels later on, but for now these are sufficient for testing.  I will double check ALL my levels before I release the game for any errors (I noticed some extra pills on one level I didn't like near the ghost spawn I want to remove later on).
   I may do some work on some extra special effects now that all the tools are working properly.  I want to add in a special effect when you JUMP or get BONUS tools that shows the pills disapearing one by one with a sound effect for each one and you can watch your score go up for each pill as it vanishes, maybe with floating points, before the new level is loaded.  I also want some sort of indicator at the wrap around points on the edge of the screen to show that a ghost is wrapping around.  Maybe some animated electricity, or maybe not.  I'm not sure how I would handle it given the fact that the level editor is public (will be public for paid users anyhow) and if they make a wrap around larger than one space.  Hmmm...  I also want to add more to the level editor as well.  I realized today that the cursor keys are unused on the level editor and I could really use t hem to shift the map around.  You press UP, the map shifts up by one, anything at the top wraps around, same with the sides etc.  I could have used it today to save me a lot of time!
   I also want to change the PILL FILL so that it fills every OTHER pill location on the first pass, then if you click it again, it fills every other pill starting at the first empty location at the top left.  In this way you could easily have alternating colours of pills with two fills.  Just select a pill, click it, then select another pill, click it again and you fill in the rest of the gaps giving you alternating colours.  Also, if you only wanted pills every other location, one click would be enough.  As it is now you click each spot manually for every other space (or erase each spot in between every other pill after a pill fill).  I may still add on a key command to the level editor, and leave it undocumented, that sets the editor to BONUS level mode so I can verify BONUS levels without a pickup having to be placed first, maybe set a special flag in the level tagging it as a BONUS level.  I'll have to think on this, it's not important as only I can create and add bonus levels to the game, well, anyone could if they knew how I suppose, but I'm not saying how :P
   
   
September 21, 2013
------------------
@7:38pm v13.09.21 (1937)
   Corrected a minor problem with the sound, if the tool timer was ticking in a loop when you ended the level it would keep ticking until the next level started.  I had to add two global variables, one to keep track if the sound was playing, the other is an id variable which points Allegro 5's screwy sound system to the sample.  I can't stand how they implemented the new sound system, it's overly complicated and pure garbage.  I may switch to SDL for my next project if Allegro 5 doesn't fix this (and it doesn't look like they will, I think the developers of Allegro 5 think  they get extra gold stars for complexity).  Or maybe I'll look into trying my hand at doing this stuff by scratch.  I could develop my own system.  We'll see.  Anyhow, I hacked this to get it working, the second part of the sound I had to hack (I can't slowly change the pitch of a sound sample anymore without writing a large amount of obfuscated, overly complicated code where I would have to keep track of all my sound samples manually etc... etc... etc... all just to change the pitch of ONE FRICKEN SOUND SAMPLE!!!  Something that took a single command in Allegro 4.  It may just be time for me to throw in the towel on programming as well.  It's not as fun as it used to be.
   

September 24, 2013
------------------
@9:27pm v13.09.24 (2123)
   This is the first entry I made today, but I actually spent some time today and yesterday working on the game.  Today I worked on new ways to speed the game up on slower machines.  One idea I had was to slow down the interrupt I had set up for the player and ghosts, it was set to 170, I changed it to 60 so it doesn't update as often, I then set then player speed to +4 rather than 1, so in essence the player is moving the speed it would have had the interrupt had been set to 240.  I had wanted to speed the player's movement speed up so this worked out nicely.  The actual FPS rate is much lower now, but this is because it doesn't update as often.  When I tested this on my wife's computer which is an older system with a built in video card, it ran a little bit faster.  In fullscreen mode it ran around 30FPS, the older version ran around 24FPS, so a small increase, but on a system like hers, it was enough to smooth it out a little.  Unfortunately, with the newer Allegro 5, it focuses heavily on hardware accelerated graphics cards, which most people have these days, but there are some older systems and cheaper cards that don't perform as well and I would prefer it if I could control the video more directly like I used to, but then we wouldn't have certain effects I like.  Such is life.  I may look into other ways to speed things up.  I may try creating lower resolution graphics with no alpha channel that I can blit to the screen with alternate functions that don't use alpha in order to perhaps speed things up.  We'll see, but for such a simple program, it sure seems to chug along slowly and I am still not sure why.  It should absolutely FLY by. I also want to look into swapping out my path finding function for a proper A* (pronounced A STAR) algorithm, which may be faster as the game spends lots of time in that.  It also takes extra time for OGG audio files, so I may look into using WAVs, at least as perhaps an alternate data set along with the lower res graphics.
   I also added on a LOAD button to my main menu as I decided I absolutely want to add in a SAVE GAME feature that would be available by pressing ESC while playing.  The menu would pop up on a smaller window overlapping the main game window which would have the following options: 
   RESUME (default upon pressing enter) - Resumes current game in play.
   SAVE  -  Saves game and returns to this menu
   LOAD  -  Loads game and then switches to the new game showing the current level box waiting for player to press ENTER.
   EXIT  -  Exits current game and returns to the main menu.
   

September 25, 2013
------------------
@1:40am v13.09.25 (0140)
   I fixed some timing issues with the ghosts blinking, the amount of time  they stayed scared, their blinking speed, there were problems with drawing the tool bar on the right side etc... etc... etc... etc... basically anything and everything to do with TIMING!  I can't believe how STUPID I was to use so many "MAGIC NUMBERS", they are hard coded numbers rather than using a #DEFINE or a constant to represent them instead.  You should NEVER use magic numbers rather than #defines.  If someone else reads your code they won't have a clue why you use a number like say 128, but if you used a variable or #define like SPRITE_X_POSITION and assign it 128, and use that in your code, than it becomes more clear what you are doing.  Also if you wish to change that number later on, you can just change that one #define/constant rather than trying to search for it in your code then remember why you used that value!  I also used #defines for timing like REDRAW_TIMER/3  rather than a fixed value so if I change the redraw timer again in the future, anything that is associated with it will also change instantly.  This was a hard lesson!  I spent SO MUCH time searching my code and fixing these timing issues, literally HOURS when if I had done it right in the first place, I would have spent less than a minute changing a few numbers and the rest of my program would have automatically adjusted itself.  It really does make that much of a difference.  I also had to remember HOW I came up with some formulas and where I got the fixed values from.  Stupid, stupid, stupid! *slaps self*. ;)  Anyhow, it's fixed now, lets hope I don't have many more magic numbers lurking in my code.  I may just take a day and go over it and fix anything like that up.
   Oh, I also added in code that will now display a tiny version of the stopwatch icon you pick up to give you extra time for future tools on the right side.  It is just below where the timer bar appears and remains there as long as you have that tool to remind you that you have extra time on all tools.
   I also want to add in code that displays the current tool that is in use on the upper right corner, above the timer bar.  This should be trivial to do.
   
   
October 1, 2013
---------------
@2:49pm v13.10.01 (1449)
   Added a small (32x32) image of the current tool in use in the upper right corner of the screen while the timer bar is ticking away so you know which tool is currently in use.  This is especially useful if you get the random ? tool so you know which tool you grabbed.  I also increased the size of the stopwatch/TIME tool graphic that is displayed when you get the extra TIME tool from 24x24 to a 32x32 image on the right side.
   I discovered a potential problem with the tool_inuse[] array.  Even though the last element of the array technically never gets used and so is not needed, I felt that to be safe I was best to include it anyhow to match the number of tools available.  Currently there are 25 tools and array element zero is unused, the array should go from 0 to 25 (25 tools + 1 extra element).  The zero element is not used, but the enum words go from 1 to 25, 0 is used for OFF and not actually a tool.  Tool #25 is the SKULL so it never really gets used in this array, but one never know how things may change in the future so I figure it is best to be safe and include this element anyhow.

   
October 23, 2013
----------------
@12:29pm v13.10.23 (1228)
   Fixed a small bug with the game when certain tools (like freeze) effects would not be reset until the next tool appeared.  I had code that reset all the tools to off when the timer ran out, but if the tool effected something, like frozen ghosts, they would not be reset.  I had actually created a function just for  this purpose to make sure everything was reset and for some odd reason I didn't use it.  Anyhow, I fixed this and just call the function which I had originally intended and it then resets everything that may need to be reset properly.
   
@11:50pm v13.10.23 (2349)
   Added a simple ABOUT screen.  I need to change this so I can load in a text file and display it, possibly scrolling, but this looks fine for now.  I may write a function just for displaying scrolling text windows.  I'm not 100% certain how I will do it, but I have some ideas.  It will certainly be a learning experience for me.  I figure if the text fits on screen, fine, it will display without a scrollbar, but if it does not, a scrollbar will appear on the right side to indicate how much text there is to read.  I may also simply add on a "PREVIOUS", "NEXT" and "RETURN" buttons on the bottom of the screen you can select the previous/next page of text or return to the main menu.  If there is no other pages, only a return button would appear, similarly, if there is no previous pages, no button for that, and if no next, no next will appear.  This would be an easier system to program and the person could simply use the cursor keys + enter to select or, if I decided to add mouse support back in, a mouse.
   
   
January 6, 2014
---------------
A late happy Gregorian New Year, not really the start of a new year, that's really in March believe it or not, but that's another subject.
@3:45pm v14.01.06 (1545)
   Added in simple code so that when you select the WEBSITE button it takes you to my Official Website, it leaves the game running, you can just click the game again to get back to it.  This seems to look okay as is, I'll have to test how it does from fullscreen mode etc.
@3:59pm
   I tested it with fullscreen mode and I'll need to detect when the player comes back to the game from the website and redraw the screen as it loses the image when you go to the website.
   
   
January 21, 2014
----------------
@12:41am v14.01.21 (0041)
   Okay, while testing the "WEBSITE" button in real fullscreen mode (ALLEGRO_FULLSCREEN), when you clicked on the game's icon to return to the game you were greeted with a black screen.  There is a problem with Direct3D where the game can "lose the display" and the game needs to detect when it loses the display and handle it.  Well, Allegro has some special flags you can set which tell it to preserve textures (the screen basically) so you don't lose it when the game loses the display.  You also have to detect when the game "finds" the display again and then redraw the screen so the player sees it.  Well, since I never encountered this problem before, I had set up the game so it didn't preserve the texture (this can improve performance slightly).  The problem was, you got a black screen when you got back.  Also, I wasn't testing to see if the display was lost.  So I fixed all that and it works nicely in fullscreen mode.  Interestingly enough, you don't lose display when you use the game in Windowed or what is called Fullscreen Windowed (ALLEGRO_FULLSCREEN_WINDOWED) which is basically a fullscreen, borderless window that LOOKS like fullscreen, but is in fact a window.  The benefit of this is you can switch very quickly between your game and your web browser or whatever, and even have other programs overlapping the game, I prefer it these days, even though true fullscreen mode is faster, on modern hardware I don't notice the difference.  In my game I will give you the option to choose which mode you prefer, anyhow, all modes work, even when you switch away from the game.  I may need to do more testing on switching away from the game, maybe give the player the option to pause the game when you do or let it keep running.
   I also fixed another minor aesthetic problem with the main menu buttons.  I placed my code in the wrong section of my keyboard input detection routines.  When it detects that you press ENTER on a menu selection, the button shows it being pressed in, when you release ENTER, it shows it "popping" back out.  But when you say, select the "WEBSITE" option, you don't see the button being graphically pressed in and just jump straight to the website.  When you come back to the game however, the button is stuck pressed in until you move your select with the cursor keys!  I realized I was reacting to the player's selection when ENTER was PRESSED and I should not actually jump to their selection until they RELEASE ENTER so you properly see the button graphic pressing in and popping out before it jumps to your selection.  This also fixes the problem with the button being stuck in when you return to the menu.  It's funny how the little things can bugger you up sometimes. ;)

@1:40am v14.01.21 (0140)
   Changed the ABOUT button code so it shows the menu screen (with the ABOUT button pressed) in the background, as originally intended.  I used to have it not show the menu in the background because when you returned to the menu, the button was stuck in.  This was due to what I talked about earlier with the code jumping when ENTER is pressed rather than waiting for it to be released, which is pretty much standard behaviour in most video games these days.
   TODO: I need to take the ABOUT and other text OUT of the game and place it all in text files, in their own language folders, or perhaps language data files so I can translate the text into different languages.  This also means I will probably have to redesign the menu buttons so they do not have text on them by default, which also means designing a new FONT to match the current text, but I am sure I can do this as I REALLY want to add in other languages, like Spanish due to the large number of people that played my Deluxe Pacman from places in South America, it would be nice to show some sort of support for them and other languages. I want to design this so I can easily add new languages to the game, which means external, individual, language files of some sort.
   

January 22, 2014
----------------
@11:45pm v14.01.22 (2344)
   Yesterday and today I edited a bitmap font (Verdana 12pt bold) with a black outline to use rather than a truetype font as it stands out better against various graphical backgrounds.  I would prefer truetype fonts so I can use all different types of text characters for things like foreign languages but I have no way to do that yet.  I am hoping the Allegro library gets patched sometime in the near future before I release this which adds that support.
   With that said, it looks quite nice with the bitmap font.  It took me a few hours of editing and fiddling around to get it right.
   
   
January 23, 2014
----------------
@9:53am v14.01.23 (0952)
   I created some new button graphics for a small menu that will pop up if you press escape while playing the game.  The game will be paused eventually and you will be presented with a small menu of buttons with the following options (in this order, top to bottom): RESUME, SAVE, LOAD, EXIT.  The default button will be RESUME where you can continue the game where you left off.  SAVE and LOAD will allow you save and load your game to be continued later on and EXIT will exit the current game and take you to the main menu.  I haven't implemented any of these yet, but I don't think it will be all that difficult to implement.
   I'll probably copy my main menu function and alter it to display the game menu  then add on functions to SAVE and LOAD.  The LOAD can be called from the game menu as well as the main menu.
   Because I have two different sized LOAD button graphics, I had to edit my code to load in the larger graphic for the main menu.  The game menu will have a smaller button graphic.
   Something I would like to do in the future, if possible, is to only have a large and small set of button graphics, and a custom BIMINI font with black outline so I can create any button in game on the fly rather than having to manually create them every time.  This would also allow me to reuse my code in other games by simply changing the two button graphics and even font to suit the game, then it could make buttons up in game on the fly.
   
   
January 28, 2014
----------------
@3:39pm v14.01.28 (1539)
   I started work on t he game menu today and it is coming along nicely.  I copied the main_menu() function then simply altered it to match what I wanted for the game menu.  I adjusted the graphics so they are nicely centred on screen and there is a shadow behind the menu.  I also copied the game screen into the bitmap "menuback" so when I have the menu up I can redraw it over and over again while maintaining the transparency of the menu.
   When the game menu pops up, the game stops all the timers and sounds/music, this way the ghosts, pacman etc are in the same state they were in when the menu came up when you return to the game.  I just need to add in code to restart some of the sound effects that were playing, mainly the background sound that plays when the ghosts are normal and when they are scared.
   I also still need to add in code for the SAVE and LOAD buttons.  I am thinking now I may need to save the timer states if this is possible and maybe even the sound states.  Either that or I will simply start the player and ghosts at all their starting positions when you reload the level, minus the pills you already gathered.
   I also need to remember to maybe save the score, though I am uncertain about this as then a player could save the game frequently and if they die, simply reload in order to rack up a huge score which I do not like so I may zero the score when they reload and have this basically as a mechanism to continue on through the levels where they left off, with the same number of lives, though I may even reset that as well so you start off fresh, but then again, this could also be abused if the player gets low on lives, this could be used to give them back, so I may save the level+lives but not the score.  I may post about this on the Allegro forums and get their imput on how to do this as well.
   
   
January 29, 2014
----------------
@12:15am v14.01.29 (0015)
   I renamed the small LOAD button file from "Load.png" to "Load_Small.png" and the SAVE button file from "Save.png" to "Save_Small.png" and I changed "Load_Large.png" back to what I had it at, which was "Load.png" and the same with the Save button.  I had renamed the old large LOAD/SAVE buttons with a _Large extension to the filename so I couild use "Load.png" and "Save.png" for the small buttons.  I don't know why I did this, it was stupid.  You should always have new filenames for the new files and never alter the old file names that are already in use unless absolutely nessecary.  When I did this, the level editor, Pace2, used  the smaller versions of the buttons.  Also, I inadvertently deleted the LARGE version of the SAVE button which the editor used.  Anyhow, I got it all straightened around so the old filenames are back to what they were so I don't have to recompile the editor all over again (although I may anyhow for other reasons) just because I changed the filenames.  Anyhow, my new rule of thumb for file naming is that I am not to change the names of old files unless it is nessecary to avoid these problem again.

@1:29pm v14.01.29 (1328)
   I added in a simple function to save the game from the game menu.  It saves all the player data that is needed, including the score, level and level data.  What it doesn't save is the player's position, ghost positions, current tool in use etc as when the game is reloaded, the player will start at the normal player starting position as well as all the ghosts with no current tools active.  I removed the LOAD option from the game menu as this might encourage people to save and reload frequently in order to advance through the game easier.  Instead you can save all you wish, but in order to reload you have to exit the current game and select load from the main menu.  It still retains your score and number of lives as well as the number of pills already cleared on that level.  I felt this was a nice compromise.  People can still use this to restart if they die, but it will be more tedious to do it this way.  As it should be.  I may change some of this later, but for now it seems okay and I felt I needed to get something in place rather than leaving it out because I wasn't certain how I wanted to do things.

@7:39pm v14.01.29 (1939)
   I fixed a minor problem with the timers.  When you're waiting to start a level, if you waited long enough before pressing any key to continue, you would get a pickup or tool right away as the timers were running while you waited.  This could be exploited so I now stop the timers while the game waits for input and then restart them once you press any key so this is no longer a problem.  The timers are also stopped when you press ESC while playing a game.

@8:31pm v14.01.29 (2031)
   Added a message prompt informing the player that the game has been saved after they press the save button.  I created a new function for displaying one line messages and waiting for a keypress so I can also use it in any possible future messages I may wish to display.

@10:53pm v14.01.29 (2253)
   Fixed the code so the background sound effect started back up after you RESUME your game from the game menu.  It didn't restart it properly before, the fix was pretty simple, just needed to reset the "backplay" variable to zero.  It tracks which background sound is currently playing, zero means none and will cause the game to automatically start it up again.  Got to love when I plan things out and they pay off like this. ;)
   
   
January 30, 2014
----------------
@11:07pm
   Mainly just worked on implementing the hiscore system.  I was going to write it from scratch, but after some thought I felt it would be worthless to re-invent the wheel.  I have loaded in the Deluxe Pacman 1 code and have been working on converting it over to Allegro 5 code as well as improving on it where I can and adopting it to this game.  There's quite a bit to it, so it will take a couple days work I suspect.
   
   
February 7, 2014
----------------
@2:58pm v14.02.07 (1458)
   Okay, I got the hiscore file to create the files and write the scores to the file okay, they also read in from the files okay.  I had a few problems with this code, but I managed to get it working.  It now writes the player name, score, level and I added in the date in the format: DDMMMYYYY, so January 20, 1965, would look like 20JAN1965, this will be displayed on the hiscore listing as well.  The default name and date will be "Empty" and "20JAN1965" (my birthdate) as well as a score and level of zero when the hiscore list is created and cleared.
   Now the hard part is converting my old Allegro 4 code over to Allegro 5 as well as the new way I will display everything etc.  I am not sure how the input system will work, or if I will be able to support accented characters like I used to with the current system or not, I hope I can as I REALLY want to support other languages so everyone can enjoy the game in their own language, which is as it should be.  We'll see, I'll certainly make a good effort to try and keep that support in there (and expand on it for the entire game eventually).

   
February 8, 2014 - ~*~*~*~ HAPPY 29th ANNIVERSARY TO MY LOVELY WIFE! ~*~*~*~
----------------
@1:08am v14.02.07 (1458)
   Done more work, got the high scores to display from the menu.  I still need to redesign the name entry system as I am now using truetype fonts which do not have a fixed width and so I can't use the same system.  I will probably have a vertical line to the right of the text you are entering, then as you type in your name, the program measures the width of the text entered so far, then draws the vertical line just to the right of it.  The length of your name you will be allowed to enter has to be changed from a fixed number of characters as the last game had to instead, a fixed width in pixels, so small, lower case text that doesn't use as much horizontal space will mean longer names can be entered.  I will probably do away with the green entry box.  I may even just have a transparent window pop up that you enter your name in, I like the sounds of this, I could even add shadows for the box and text being entered.  I'll have to give this more thought.  I may even design a new bitmap font, as much as I hate to do that as it takes a LOT of wasted time, but the end result should look good, if I can get the width correct, say 12 pixels.  This may even allow me to stick with the old text entry box method, but with a bitmap font = no accented text, which from the looks of things so far, I may have to skip that idea for this game, as much as I hate to, it is taking too much time for me to figure out and the new Allegro, while much improved, is lacking some features in this regard.  I don't want to spend a huge amount of time on something that will make so little difference to the game in the end.
   
   
February 12, 2014
-----------------
@3:48am v14.02.12 (0348)
   Worked on the high score system more and it is coming along.  Adding in unicode support has been a huge headache, but it is slowly getting there.  I don't think you can write UTF-8 (Unicode) directly to disk as is, from what I read I have to convert it to a C string using Allegro 5's al_cstr() function before I write the actual unicode name to file, so I'll have to rewrite my loading and saving functions for my highscore routines so they write each element individually, converting to/from a c string as it goes.  Currently it loads and saves all at once, which I suspect is the whole problem.  It clears the arrays fine, displays the characters from the Unicode name just fine, but once it creates high score files for the first time and then tries to load them, the name variables contain only NULL, which means they are not being written/read properly.  I'll work on this more tomorrow and change those around so they convert to/from C strings, I am hoping that is what the problem is, I am fairly certain now that is what it is.  If not, than I am stumped and I will quickly drop unicode support and go back to default ASCII as this game will NEVER get completed if I have to keep fiddling around with this crap.
  
@11:12pm v14.02.12 (2311)
   DONE!!!  I got the hiscore screen working perfectly, I added code in to check the width of the name being typed in pixels and then making certain it doesn't get too large to display on screen.  Reading and writing the hiscore files were a larger pain than I first imagined, but I managed to figure out how to get things done.  The names are converted to a C string before being written.  The length of the name text is also written before the name is, the same for the time string, the size of strings are written, then the strings, and when they are read back, the size is first read, then a temporary buffer is malloc()'d using the size just read, then the name is read in and converted back to a ustr using Allegro 5s al_ustr_new_from_buffer().  The buffer is then free()d up.  Anyhow, I can move on to something else!  YAY!!! :D  I learned a lot from this excersize though, as annoying as it was, I am glad I did it and stuck with it.
   
   
February 23, 2014
-----------------
@10:13pm v14.02.23 (2213)
   I done some work on this and created a trophy from scratch this time, to avoid copyright issues, so this is 100% my work.  The "Hall Of Fame" title isn't as nice as the last screen I created because the game is drawing the text at runtime so I can't do the same effects.  This is needed because I want to add in support for various other languages in the future and so the title will change depending on future translations.  Also added in shadows.  It's funny the things you have to keep in mind when designing these things!  Anyhow, I like the look of it now and will probably stick with this.  I may add in a couple more flares (for a totally of 3 perhaps) with one static flare that doesn't move and two other flares that rotate clockwise and counter clockwise for a nice effect, we'll see.
   
   
February 24, 2014
-----------------
@2:00am v14.02.24 (2213)
   I totally changed the Hall of Fame screen.  I deleted the old one and instead, I saved the individual components of it, mainly the Trophy graphic I had created and I saved a purple flare graphic and rather than having a premade, static screen, I have the trophy which has three flares all rotating at different speeds and in different directions which makes for a nice looking effect.
   I noticed the text on the screen is just a few pixels off centre which sort of bugs me, but it is not my fault, the library isn't quite getting the text exactly centred when it prints it to screen like it should, but I can live with that.  I also need to add in the Hall Of Fame music yet and maybe code in a way to clear the high scores easily as well as heavily test it for bugs (click the window close button etc).  I also realize that I'll have to remove the score from the save game feature.  It would have been nice, but it would make it far too easy to cheat and fill the Hall Of Fame screen up with only your scores.  Once the game is saved you can currently just reload it, then each time you exit and reload the game, you get your name up on the high score listing until all the spots with a lower score are filled!  I don't like this at all, so I will be clearing the score when you start a new game, whether it is one you loaded or it is a new game.  You'll have the level you left off at saved, the pills you had cleared saved and all that, but not your score.  You will still get the same bonus multiplier saved for the current level all all the rest.
   Anyhow, I'll have to do all that when I get up, time for bed! :)

@10:37am v14.02.24 (1037)
   I added 5 pixels to the position of the trophy image on the Hall Of Fame screen to account for t he not so centred text.  I'll have to keep an eye on this if the Allegro library gets updated and the text problem is ever fixed.  For now it looks nice and centred.
   
@11:44am v14.02.24 (1143)
   I added in music for the Hall of Fame.  I also realized that the main game music should continue to play during the main menu screen, so I altered my code a little, made the main game music a global variable, because it will be used in more than one function and will therefore need to be shut down by my shutdown() function which is called from all over my game, if there is an error detected in order to cleanly free up allocated memory before an exit.  The Hall of Fame music only gets called after a player is done playing and so is only called from one location so I am able to load it, play it, then free up the memory immediately when it is done.
   - Add Screenshot key F12 to hiscore screen. (done)
   
@3:59pm v14.02.24 (1558)
   Added in support for screenshots all over the game so you can take one at the title screen, menus etc.  I may add in a camera sound effect.
   I removed the scores from being saved with the SAVE/LOAD feature.  It's too bad I had to do this, but there were far too many ways to cheat with this.  Everything else gets saved so you can continue where you left off with the same number of lives, bonus items (like EXTRA letters) etc, but your score is zero when you load.  There was a small problem at the prompt where you enter your name where once you pressed ENTER it would enter your name then leave the high score screen totally and back to the main menu.  I added in code to wait for you to release any pressed keys before it continues on after you press ENTER.  This way it stays on the high score screen until you're ready to leave.
   
   
February 25, 2014
-----------------
@12:32pm v14.02.25 (1230)
   I done some work on the difficulty settings, which I had not implemented yet, the ghosts were merely moving around randomly.  The difficulty settings effect the eyes and how fast a ghost gets back home and whether or not a ghost will chase you.  EASY mode is totally random, MEDIUM is a 25% chance to chase/go home and HARD is a 50% chance.  I had it at 75% on hard, but I found the ghosts sort of lined up to chase you much of the time.  I still want to develop personalities for each ghost so he behaves in a certain way.  I may even drop difficulty levels completely.  Time will tell.
   
@5:22pm v14.02.25 (1722)
   I gave the ghosts some "personality".  Each ghost will move according to certain conditions, RED will chase pacman, Green targets an area 4 tiles ahead of Pacman (ambushes him), Cyan moves an equal distance from pacman that Red is from a point two tiles in front of Pacman.  And Purple will chase Pacman like Red does until he gets too close, then he chickens out and runs back home, only to turn around when he gets a certain distance away (greater than 8 tiles total) and attack again.  The logic works rather well.  I may use this logic for hard mode and use the old random movements for easy and maybe a combination of the two for medium.  Red is pretty deadly persistant, so I may add in a random chance for him to take a wrong turn, but then again, he will only be that bad on HARD mode... and well... it is supposed to be hard I guess.
   
   
February 26, 2014
-----------------
@4:58pm v14.02.26 (1657)
   I added code to optimize the dir() function which decides which direction the ghosts take as they move along.  I added code which checks to see if they only have ONE direction they can go and if that is the case, than it doesn't bother to check for a path, which can be time consuming and just returns with the direction that can be travelled.  I also added in code so that the bullet_move() function is not called unless a bullet is active.  I just noticed it was called whether a bullet was active or not which is a waste of time.  I'll add in code to check if the ghost is at a dead end earlier on as well so it avoid getting a path after I eat supper and watch Star Trek: Voyager. ;)
   
@9:35pm v14.02.26 (2135)
   I added in extensive code to check if the ghost is at a dead end in the dir() function.  I also fixed some errors and added in some missing code which checked the available directions the ghost could move from it's current location.  It does all this before it checks a path so that IF there is only one path it can take, or it reaches a dead end, it no longer wastes time calling the path function and simply returns the direction it is able to go.  This should improve things considerably as the path finding function can eat up some time.
   I also realized an error I made in my code which updates pacman and ghosts' positions in the timer code.  I had the game flag to redraw the screen every time either one of those were updated which doesn't make any sense.  I don't know what I was thinking here, but I fixed it so now the game ONLY updates the screen when the game's redraw_timer generates an event, which is what that is for.  It's a simple one line of code.  This smooths things out as well as when it was redrawing based on when pacman or ghosts timer generated an event, if the pacman was moving faster because you pressed the CTRL key, the pacman's timer was sped up and of course, the screen was updated more frequently.  Now it updates at the redraw speed which is set to 60FPS currently and even if I now press CTRL, it updates at the same rate, which is how I originally intended.
   I also added in code to the collision detection which tests the distance between the ghosts and pacman's X and Y co-orinates separately and returns a false collision flag if the distance of either of these is too far.  I figured this would improve things a tiny bit if I can avoid having to get a square root and calculate out a vector each time it checks.  There's no need to do the math if the X or Y distance is too far away.  It's not much of an improvement in speed.  In testing it gained about 4FPS when I maxxed out the redraw speed, but all improvements in speed add up and could make the difference between making the game playable on someone else's system.  The game calls the collision detection function more than any other, so this is a good spot to improve.
   I also noted that there is a HUGE speed improvement when using DirectX over OpenGL.  My video card is currently a GeForce GTX650 with OpenGL 4, and up to date drivers, I am wondering why OpenGL is so much slower?  It doesn't make any sense, I may look into this.
   

February 27, 2014
-----------------
@2:51pm  v14.02.27 (1450)
   I divided up the move_bullet() function into two functions.  The new one is called activate_bullet() which does just that, it activates a bullet.  It is called when space is pressed.  Then move_bullet() is called if a bullet is active.  In this way, these functions are never called unless needed.  I don't know why I had it the way I did.  I had it so you passed a variable to it which indicated if space was pressed and then, if it was, inside that function it activated a bullet and moved it.  The same function was called for moving the bullet.  But this requires certain checks inside that function etc... which are not needed if the functions are in two separate functions which are then only called when needed, and only for a specific purpose, this eliminated unnecessary checks within the function (requiring the function to be called no matter what).  Not a major change, but it's important to do things right.
   
March 11, 2014
--------------
@9:08pm v14.03.11 (2106)
   I just realized I have had my version system messed up the last few updates.  The first number should be the year, followed by the month then the day.  For some odd reason I wasn't paying attention and putting the day first since Feb 23rd and messing it up.  Corrected the journal entries, although a video or two may show the wrong numbers still on Youtube.  Ah well, not that important. ;)
   I changed the high score screen so the flare in the background is no longer a fixed colour of purple but instead the game loads in a white flare bitmap, 512x512, then it resizes it and recolours it to some random colour so it only has to do this once.  It then only has to rotate the bitmap in the background without having to resize it and tint it each time it draws it.  It also looks a little more interesting with a random colour each time.
   
   
March 21, 2014
--------------
@7:41 v14.03.21 (1939)
   Added a user_levels variable to the configuration settings and ini file in preparation for creating the options menu.  It was the only option I was missing so you can toggle them on and off.  I considered adding back in a game speed option because it seemed popular, and could be fun to play at suicide speed, but that would make things difficult with the new energy/speed option with the CTRL key, and it really unbalances the game.  That is to say, if you play on EASY mode, but with a "SUICIDE" speed setting, you're not playing on the same level as someone playing on EASY with a NORMAL speed, even though your competing for the same high scores, so I am leaving it out this version.  If you want speed, get the new speed tool and combine that with energy and you will be smoking fast!
   Now I need to design how I want the options screen to look, like the last game or not?  I'll need to design some new button graphics for the volume controls.  I am not sure if I want to do a slider, or perhaps a + and - to adjust the volume with perhaps a number value for the volume level.  Both would be easy enough to do.  A digital number using the same font as the score on the main game screen could look nice.
   
   
April 8, 2014
-------------
@10:18pm v14.04.08 (2217)
   I started working on the options screen.  I changed my mind on how I wanted to do the volume controls.  Actually I went through four different ideas before I finally settled on one that would work well with both a keyboard interface and a mouse.  A slider and round knob would be more awkward with a keyboard interface while I finally came up with the idea of having two arrows, pointing up and down, similar to arrow buttons I already made for the level editor.  I just need to rotate them and adjust the lighting on them and I can use them.  They would work with a keyboard perfectly as you just need to highlight the up arrow, press enter, and it raises  the volume level for each keypress, there are only 10 levels to go through, 0 - 9, zero being off.  By using zero for off, that could also eliminate my need for a OFF button.  I could easily use the mouse interface for this, but I really want this to be a keyboard game.  I will probably add in mouse support for the enter game before I am done with it, the main menu is the biggest headache, but one never knows, I have come up with some new ideas lately.  I haven't got a lot done today, but it is looking good, I am glad I have the verdana bitmap font, though I am not sure I am keep using it if I wish to have support for international text so... more experimenting to do, MUCH more!  I may end up ditching the international language support for everything except the high score screen.  I hate the thought of that, but it is really holding me back from getting a nice looking game out.  We'll see.
   
   
April 29, 2014
-------------
@10:55pm v14.04.29 (2255)
   Just tried to work on the options screen.  I am learning how to cause the display to switch from windowed to one of the two fullscreen modes on the fly without having to restart the program.  There doesn't seem to be a quick fix solution to this.  From what I read I will have to destroy all the video bitmaps, destroy the display, then redo the display to the new setting and reload the bitmaps.  To make this easier I will create an independent function to do all of this, one that can be called the first time the game is run or anytime the display is changed.  I figure I will check to see if bitmaps exist, if they do, destroy them, then check the display, see if it exists, destroy it if needed, then re-initialize and load bitmaps as would be done normally.  The new function could take just a few perimeters like the display variable and new modes (fullscreen and opengl or DirextX and anything else I wish to check).  It could then return a boolean as to whether it was successful or not.  Shouldn't be too difficult to implement and will make the game nicer to use in options when switching modes, no need to restart like the last game.

May 7, 2014
-----------
@2:00am v14.05.07 (0200)
   Just done some work on the options menu.  After much work I managed to get the resolutions working where you can change from Windowed to two different Fullscreen modes and it will change to what you wish without having to restart the game (once you save your settings and exit the options it automatically changes to the mode you prefer.  It took some work, I basically had to create two new functions which destroyed the old display and unloaded ALL the graphics that are loaded into video memory as that section of memory is cleared when you destroy the display, then I set up the new mode you requested and the game has to reload all the graphics back into video memory again.  It actually is pretty fast as once you done it the first time, the operating system will still have much of the graphics it it's cache, so unless you have been doing a lot in the background with other programs, the cache should still be intact and reload faster.  In any event, this is unavoidable, but it does work.  I have noticed a small bug, when I use true Fullscreen mode, I have an in game small menu that displays the background wrong, this is due to how the resolution of 800x600, with a 4:3 ratio is transformed and clipped onto your monitor which could be 16:9 ratio.  There is no problems in the Windowed modes (Windowed and Fullscreen_Window, which I prefer over fullscreen).  I need to have true fullscreen support for those who can't do fullscreen windowed mode, but if you can use it, it is far better in my opinion.  I'll work on a fix for this minor error tomorrow.  I have at least one option to fix this with, and I am searching for something better as well, but it WILL be fixed one way or the other.
   
@8:41pm v14.05.07 (2041)
   Got the display problem fixed.  My a5_scale_screen function had some global variables that were already set, all I needed to do was to use those variables which contained the offset and scale of the main screen and then do a scaled copy of that section to the temporary background bitmap to get it to display properly and it worked like a charm, you can't see any difference when the small game menu pops up.
   
   
May 8, 2014
-----------
@1:22am v14.05.08 (0121)
   I just tried to implement mouse support again but I am still having trouble with it so I will leave it turned off for now and I may get back to it later on, it's not really needed too badly as all my menus work well with the keyboard.  I should implement joystick support though it has been a while since I have used one for anything, I may have to look to my old game for ideas on how to implement it although I don't know how well that will translate over to Allegro 5, I certainly don't want to copy some bad code from before... hmmm... maybe I'll do it from scratch, but that will be later on and certainly not a priority for me, I prefer the keyboard for this game, joystick is a good idea, mouse has never went well with the game itself, only t he menus which are easy to navigate with the keyboard and joystick so... we'll see.  I don't recall implementing mouse support for Deluxe Pacman 1, I'll have to recheck that.
   ...okay, I checked Deluxe Pacman 1 again, yeah, I did have limited mouse support for the menus only, but not for game play.  The menus on the original game didn't follow the mouse movement, it only responded to clicks, one click to select a menu item, two clicks to activate it, so I may do that again with this one as it tends to work better when you have keyboard and joystick support.  Or I may rethink this and see if I can get it working, I know I am close to getting it working the way I like so... perhaps more thought on this would be best so I don't get lazy.  I want this version to be better than the old one after all.
   
   
May 19, 2014
-----------
@1:22am v14.05.18 (Unfinished - Prerelease)
   This is a special version of the game I am going to release.  I made a copy of all my code in a separate folder so I could delete large portions of it that are unfinished and patch other parts so it can be played, NOW, so I can release it as is.  My main reason for doing this is that I am tired of working on this and for those that do like the game, they will have something they can play and I can move on to other things.  It's been over 20 years I have worked on this on and off.
   I changed my code so that difficulty levels work, combining old code with new code so that the newer code is used in hard mode, the old code is used in easy and medium difficulty levels.  I still want to tweak medium more to perhaps use both random and the AI I implemented for hard mode.
   I also noticed a minor error with the level editor, the text said "Yellow Ghost", it used to be yellow, but I changed it to Cyan coloured and forgot to change the level editor text, so I adjusted that (and it still needs to be changed in the main version of the game).  In the "Unfinished" version I removed code to adjust the VSync with as it was severely interfering with entering your name at the Hall of Fame screen for some reason, so it is disabled and in fact, I forced VSync off in my code for this version but it is something I will need to revisit in the future and correct.
   The "Unfinished" version has the "Help" and "Options" buttons and code completely removed, the graphics were removed from the PAK file as well, although I still have them in the main version and will complete them.  I also changed the FONT that is used in the "Unfinished" version back to the font_verdana_bmp, bitmap font I created, but I do want to stick with the normal verdana font which supports international text better so I can later add in multi-language support, but that is a far off pipe dream and I have my doubts it will ever be done without some sort of financial incentive.
   I needed to change the default system encoding to UTF-8, it was set to System Default which is... I don't know... but it didn't allow me to use © Copyright symbols and such.  This will also probably be important for Unicode support, I may even have to change it to something like UTF-16?  I don't know much about Unicode yet.
   
June 27, 2014
-------------
@6:33pm
   I just received a very generous ($1250) donation from James Wiggins for this game, so I will continue to work on it and try and get it finished up and polished.  I thank God for his generosity as this comes at a time when we are very short financially and this was badly needed.  It's a prayer answered, so when I say God bless James Wiggins, I truly mean that.  He's a rare breed.
   I created a text file where I can record the donators so I can give them the credit they deserve in the game.  I appreciate anything people give, it always encourages me to keep plugging away at this.  Not all of us are blessed financially and so if you cannot afford anything, I totally understand, don't worry about it, just enjoy the game.
   In other news, I need to check the code for this game and make certain it creates a "Screenshots" folder if one does not exist at startup.
   I may also attempt to make the game screen larger, scrollable, perhaps adjustable.  It would be more work, but I think it could be worth the effort.
   
June 28, 2014
-------------
@12:59am
   I done a quick edit of the Pace 2 level editor.  In the last version I added in the "Filename" of the last level loaded to the top of the screen so you remember the name.  The only problem is, I place it too far to the left, so if you get a validation error, the error message can overlap the "Filename" text.  So after some testing to determine the longest error message would no longer overlap, I lined up the text to it is even with the right edge of the main editor window, so it looks nice and no more overlapping text.
   I also had to move some code for the editor over from my "prerelease" folder in order to get this to work.  I had changed some code before and forgot to move it to the main project folder.  I hope I didn't make the same mistake with the main game code.  Time will tell.  I don't think I did though.
   
July 20, 2014
-------------
@7:35pm
   I started looking to solve a bug which was reported to me by Bruce Yurth, a Facebook person who liked my game a lot and who reported a few bugs to me.  One such bug was where the game could crash when a ghost wrapped from the bottom to top (or vice versa) of the screen.  I discovered part of the problem and will try and fix it.  I tried to fix it earlier, but the game crashed because I had forgotten to update my new code to compile with v5.0.10 of the library which is a more stable release version than the 5.1.7 I was using which was a newer test version.  Anyhow, I managed to fix that and get it working again (and made a backup on a thumb drive!)  I'll try and get some of these bugs fixed.  Somewhere in my code, so far anyhow, my ghost[i].map.y location, which stores which map cell the ghost is in, will get set to 255, which is obviously far too large a value (0-16 is the Y value).  The value I know goes out of range when the ghosts wrap around the screen, and what I think is happening is that when it goes negative, the value gets set to 255 in an unsigned character variable I have, then when it tests the value + 1, it ends up with zero, a valid value (because an unsigned char will wrap from 255 to 0 if you add 1!), BUT when it checks an array, the array won't see zero, it will see 255+1 because it takes an int, and will therefore won't wrap and see 256, which goes way out of bounds for the array and CRASH!  I could change the MAP value to an int, but then I would have to redo ALL my levels which would be a royal pain (the reason I choose an UNSIGNED CHAR is because it is exactly 1 byte in size, or 0 to 255, where as an INT is usually 4 bytes in size and is simply not needed as the values shouldn't go that high, and an UNSIGNED CHAR will take 1/4 of the memory).  Instead I'll come up with another solution, first I need to find out when it gets set to 255, and perhaps, test if the ghost is currently wrapping around and then not do the direction check it does which causes this.  Worst case scenario, I set the MAP variable from an unsigned character to an integer and then write a separate program to convert the current maps to the new format, which I still might do.  I could even code the game to simply read the current map format, and then convert the unsigned characters to integers as it loads requiring no conversion at all, this might be the way to go.
   I also need to add in Joystick support, even if I can't test it.  It shouldn't be too difficult to do, it's basically the same as the keyboard tests really.  I'll look into possibly buying a cheap joystick to test the game with, maybe a USB stick.
   
July 23, 2014
-------------
@9:36pm
   I almost forgot to copy all the new levels I created over to the main game folder.  I have a separate folder for the version I released, which had some code trimmed from it.  That is where I created a bunch of new levels for it to have a decent amount for release, but I forgot to copy them to my mai folder until today (when Bruce Yurth asked me about level 16, and yes, there are some fake powerpills there on purpose... hint, look at the colour of the pills, there's a connection between them and the real powerpills. ;) ).
   Bruce asked me if you will be able to move over the ghost spawn in  the final game.  I may revisit this.  I don't like the idea of blocking all access completely, as this goes back to my anti-design philosophy where I don't wish to interfere with possible level design.  But I may add in some sort of wall which only ghosts can pass through so when someone designs a level they can easily wall off a ghost only area.  The game could auto-connect up a line graphic, perhaps an animated glowing one to two neighbouring normal lines if you click on a square.  I could restrict it so you can only block 1 tile entrances, and not a lengthy opening as I don't like the idea of a level made up of nothing but ghost walls, and we all know some people would do this. ;)  This would also make it easier on me, I wouldn't need to create animated corner pieces, but only two straight line pieces.
   While I am on the subject of lines, I also wish to design some sort of lightening/electric bolt style, animated line for wrapping around the sides.  I also need to revisit the level editor so you can manually place line pieces so you can place some that appear to go off the side of the screen (for tunnels that wrap, could almost appear to connect).  I am also certain there are other things this could be used for.  The way I would most likely program this would be so if you left click on a map tile and release without moving the mouse, it places the tile you selected, but if you left click and hold the left mouse button down and move the mouse to a neighbouring tile, it would then switch to draw mode and simply draw lines as it currently does, this seems more intuitive to me.  This would mean you would need to select the single round, unconnected line-dot if you wanted it, but that wouldn't really be much of a problem.
   I also still would like to add in larger scrolling levels, but this could be a headache to program the level editor.  I'm not sure how I would program in a scrollbar for that as I am not proficient at making GUIs.  Buttons is one thing, scroll bars, another beast.  But who knows, perhaps this is another idea that seems harder than it is to implement?  I may just experiment, maybe in a separate program (like I did with pixel perfect collision, which turned out to be a bad idea).
   
August 4, 2014
--------------
@8:21pm v14.08.04 (2000)
   Okay, I think I fixed the bug where the game could crash when you wrap around from the top to the bottom (or vice versa) at the same time a dead ghost (eyes) also wraps.  It wass a rare bug.  The problem was in my function I use that ghosts call to check which directions they can move in at an intersection.  The function called dir() takes several variables, the troublesome ones were the ghosts's current position, and the destination it is checking.  Once called the first thing it done was to make certain that you sent it a valid destination, so if you sent it a destination that was off the top of the map, it would automatically adjust it so it is right on the edge so it doesn't go out of bounds.  WHat I forgot to do was to check for a valid Ghost positition.  I never figured this would be invalid at all, but I didn't take into account the fact that they can wrap around the screen, and sometimes their position is off the map!  When the dir() function checks their current map location, the array which holds the map data gets a position that goes outside of it's memory and boom, you have a crash!  So now I added in an extra variable which will store the ghost position (because I don't want to change the ghost position), then I adjust it to make certain it is in bounds.  I then check if the ghost is right on the edge of the map and if it is, that I KNOW you can wrap around (due to the map editor's map validation which ensures this) so if you're on the top edge, it is guaranteed you can go up, so that direction is validated and not checked in the array, avoiding a check error and actually it is a teeny bit faster because we can also skip having to check the value in the array and testing it etc.  It's always nice to swat a bug, especially rare ones like this which are usually the most difficult to track down.
   I also changed the cheat codes a little.  I have a cheat code I use to turn all the ghosts blue, but you needed to press 4 keys to turn each one blue!  A royal pain in the butt when testing, so I changed it so now you only have to press F1 and it will turn all ghosts that can be turned, blue.  I also made it reset the score counter which adds up the points you get for each blue ghost.  Before this change, using the cheat codes you could keep turning them blue and the score for eating a ghost would keep doubling!!!  It got VERY HIGH when testing, in t he billions, which actually turned my score counter to negative it was so high! LOL... playing normally you would never get a score that large, but... I may just change the score variable so it can hold a larger number, just in case.  I noticed the game screen's high score shows up properly, but the high score screen it shows up negative, so I think the error may simply be in the high score code, I probably did make a large enough integer to store the score into.  
   I am also going to add in the same sound effect as when you eat a powerpill to the code where you press F1 to turn all ghosts blue...<compiles and tests this idea out>...okay scratch that, it can get quite annoying to hear if you need to press it a lot. ;)
   
@8:59pm v14.08.04 (2059)
   Okay, I fixed the problem with the high score!  I store the scores as an unsigned long int, this is a really big number, the range it can store is from 0 to 4,294,967,295, if you get a score larger than this, you're a cheat and you deserve a negative score (or crash). ;)
   That is basically a 32 bit value (that is why memory on 32bit machines can't hold more than 4 gigs by the way, it's as large a value as 32bit can store!).  I could go with an unsigned 64bit value, check out how large they can get... 18,446,744,073,709,551,615!!!  Now figure out the word for how large that is (it's not "billion, trillion or even quadrillian" by the way).  The jump in values from 32 to 64 bit was absolutely mind boggling, memory ranges jumped from 4gigs (or over 4 billion) to virtually unlimited.
   I also changed two other spots that had %ld (which stands for long int, which is signed (has positive and negative values) rather than an unsigned long int which has no negative values and thus, can have larger positive values.  unsigned long int's use "%lu" when you use functions like snprintf() or printf() etc.

August 5, 2014
--------------
@3:31pm v14.08.05 (1531)
   I added in code to automatically create a "Screenshots" folder if one does not exist.
   
@3:57pm v14.08.05 (1557)
   Changed the ABOUT function so it uses the verdana_bmp (bitmap) font which I created especially for that.  This is temporary for now, but it looks much better than just a normal truetype font.  The reason why this is temporary is because I want to add in multiple language support to the game, and my little bitmap font I created for this (it has a nice black outline around the text) is for basic English style text only, no accented characters or other foreign characters at all where as truetype fonts have all that (just not the black outline <sigh>).  Right now my ABOUT has the text hard coded right in the program, but I wish to have the text stored in text files named something like ABOUT_EN.TXT for the English version, ABOUT_FR.TXT for French etc... this way I could have different languages and just load in whatever language the player speaks.  I would also have text files for all the buttons (which means I will need to redesign the buttons later as well) so ALL text in the game will be able to display in the language the person speaks.  I really like this idea as I know on my Facebook page I have quite a few people from South American countries that play my game and their native language is not English, so it would be nice to help them enjoy the game more in this way.  I would just need to find translators, or perhaps Google translate (not that it is the best way, but probably better than nothing).  Anyhow, FOR NOW, I will use what I have for English only, I will save the language feature for a game update AFTER everything is done and I have a full working English game running as getting the game running smoothly is my first priority, but I will keep these ideas in mind as I design it so (hopefully) I can easily change it later to accommodate language files.

@4:35pm v14.08.05 (1635)
   I added in a sound effect (35mm SLR camera) when ever you press F12 to take a screenshot.  It sounds quit nice!  I found the sound effect on a nice royalty free sound effects website (www.soundjay.com, thanks).  Normally I prefer to make my own sound effects from scratch, but I don't have an old 35mm SLR camera on hand. And that was the effect I wanted.
   
@4:50pm v14.08.05 (1650)
   I added in code to autodetect bonus levels outside of the pak file allowing for user made bonus levels.  This will mean that I will need to add in some sort of switch to the level editor to signify that it is a bonus level so validation doesn't check for a pickup location as bonus levels have none.  Otherwise one would have to add a pickup, validate the level, then remove the pickup spot once you know it is okay, and save it unvalidated (the game doesn't check to make sure bonus levels are validated, which is why I don't normally allow for user made bonus levels, but this could be interesting to add in.
   I looked into adding in code to automatically scan for user made line sets, this will take much more programming and I'll definitely need to backup my code before I start just in case.  Right now the line sets are stored in a fixed size, two dimensional array, one of the array elements is for the 16 tiles which are loaded, the other is for the 20 line sets that currently exist.  I will need to expand the number of lines allowed to 3 digits (up to 999 line sets) and also I will need to trash the fixed array and have the program first scan for lines, then once it finds out how many sets there are, allocate memory to store  them in.  This will mean I need to be careful to free up that memory once the game exits to avoid memory leaks.  It's more work, but I think it will be worth it to make the game more flexible... I hope it will be worth it anyhow.  I'll backup my code just in case. ;)
   
August 6, 2014
--------------
@12:12pm v14.08.06 (1210)
   Fixed a problem Bruce Yurth pointed out with my difficulty settings.  I had fixed them in the pre-release version, but forgot to update THIS version so they ended up fixed on hard mode all the time.  It now works as intended.  A simple copy & paste from my old code was all it took. :)  Now I need to look at the high score screen code to see what may be slowing it down.  I may compare my old code to this as well, just in case I fixed something there, though I don't think that is the case here.  I think the overlapping alpha blended (semi-transparent) textures may be slowing some systems down as that can be very hard on a video card (it has to check each pixel multiple times when you have overlapping transparencies, even with hardware acceleration, this is hard on a system, which is why in 3D games, shadows can be one of the hardest things on your system and can slow it down if they are set to too high a quality).  I may implement just one texture, but it won't look as good.  Hmmm... I'll have to think about this one.  Hopefully I already found a solution before, but I doubt it. :/
   
@4:50pm v14.08.06 (1650)
   I played around with the high score screen code in an attempt to speed it up.  I found no changes between the older code and it, so my only conclusion to the slowdown Bruce experienced has to be older video hardware, but this still bothers me.  I added in some code to lock a couple of the bitmaps in memory before they are used and flag them as read only.  I also changed some code so it wasn't doing any math while animating, but instead does calculations before it starts, stores those in a variable, then animates, this way no time is wasted doing math each frame, especially when the values it calculates only need to be calculated once at the start, not each time the screen is drawn.  I also reduced the number of flares being displayed from 3 to 2 which rotate in opposite directions at the same speed.  It looks just as nice as before, but all total, this should be faster.
   I also changed the default INI settings.  VSYNC was set to be ON by default, I defaulted it to 2, which forces it OFF which should help with speed.  I also set the default sound and music volume to be lower as well while I was at it.  Also the default difficulty level was set to HARD, I don't know how I managed to do that, but I set it to MEDIUM as a default, makes more sense.
   
August 7, 2014
--------------
@3:36pm v14.08.07 (1535)
   OKay, been working on this all day, I have been trying to figure out what was wrong with the high score screen.  I tested it on my wife's computer (Windows XP, a fairly low end system, I think 2G of RAM, built in video) and when I checked the high score screen it crashed!  She didn't have enough video RAM for it!  That was an unexpected error, upon checking I seen where I made my mistakes.  I had created all the video bitmap I needed, including a couple temporary bitmaps which are all then deleted at the end of the high score screen.  The problem is, this takes up a LOT of RAM, especially Video RAM which is normally not a problem, but on a low end system with a built in video card, it is a problem because they don't have much to start with.  Video RAM is separate from normal system memory, older cards have very little because, quite frankly, if you're not doing a lot of hardware accelerated 3D graphics, you only need enough to display your screen, which in my wife's case is 1280x1024x32bit, which equals 41,943,040bits or 5.2Kilobytes, not a lot, until you add in a buffer (you draw your scene on a separate area called a buffer which you do not see, once it is drawn, the whole thing is displayed at once, and while you're looking at that frame, another one is drawn in the background, in the buffer, so you need memory for the main display you see, plus an equal amount for the buffer).  Then there's all the graphics, which CAN be loaded into system memory, but that is AWEFUL slow for displaying so I load it all into video memory.  Well anyhow, I redone the code so that I created the buffer, then loaded in the temporary graphic, copied it to the buffer right away (rather than later) so I could delete the memory it was using.  I done this with another graphic as well, created the temporary buffer, loaded the graphic, copied it to the buffer then deleted the original right away, this way not a lot of memory was being used at any one time.  This ended the crash on her system (remind me to put a better video card in her system! heh).  I still had the horrible slowdown.  I was about to lose my mind with frustration when I finally figured out WHY the prerelease was so much faster than this!  The solution was that when I went to prepare the prerelease, I set the vsync so it was hard coded at OFF, you can't change that setting on it (try, I dare you! ;)).  But in this version you can.  Well, when I hard coded it, I put the number in to keep it off, rather than reading in a variable, so it worked fine.  But in this version it reads in a variable according to your setting.  That variable was set as a boolean type, which is either TRUE or FALSE, nothing else, because originally I had wanted to be able to toggle vsync ON or OFF.  Well, then I discovered that you can set VSYNC to 3 settings, the driver default (so you use display settings on windows for it), or forced on, or forced off, so I changed it to accommodate that, 0, 1 or 2... only problem is, I FORGOT TO CHANGE THE VARIABLE type from a boolean (bool) to an int!  Bool is true (1) or false (0).  So when it gets a 2, it probably interprets that as a 1 because it is a positive value and sets it to 1, which is ON rather than 2 which is OFF!  Argh.  Anyhow, I managed to finally track that down.  So... it is probably best to leave vsync off unless you have a really good fast system, otherwise it will slow down too much.  It slows down on my system, not sure exactly why.  I am tempted to leave vsync forced off and not allow it to be changed (otherwise we all know I will get emails asking why it is running too slow! heh).  Now to test this last version on my wife's computer and hope all is well.  I am sure she is tired of hearing me screaming in here. :D
   
@4:12pm v14.08.07 (1611)
   (muffles a scream), still had an error on my wife's computer.  Man, the video card built into her system really must suck!!!  BUT, frustration aside, it's a good test system for this, probably the worst case scenario, I don't know.  Anyhow, I had to eliminate another one of my textures and reprogram how I done things.  This has taught me a thing or two though, so I look at it as learning, yes... learning... must...stay...calm... ;)  Back to test again, hopefully this will work.  It should! (famous last words).
   
@8:22pm v14.08.07 (2022)
   Okay, I took a break at around 4:45pm to eat and watch Star Trek: Voyager (my favourite of all the series), I spilled my food all over the floor, my wrist has been sore all day, I'm not sure, but I think I am cursed!  Hehehe... anyhow, I got back to this, I had posted on the allegro.cc (website) forums about this problem and got some good suggestions, so we'll see how they pan out.  They sound right as the problem with the slowdown seems to be in the ALLEGRO_EVENT_TIMER, it seems to be called too much which causes the game to get bogged down waiting for it etc... etc... anyhow, I added in code to clear the event queue of old events before it draws anything so hopefully it won't get bogged down on slower systems.  I actually do this in my normal game loop so I don't know why I don't have the proper code in here, this could be a result of me converting old Allegro 4 code (used in Deluxe Pacman 1) over to this game, and then converting the code without taking into account the event timers which Allegro uses for everything.  I'll be glad when I get this problem solved, it's driving me nuts. :)
   
December 30, 2014
-----------------
@2:00pm v14.12.30 (1353)
   Haven't done much yet today, but I installed a newer version of Code::Blocks, which is the IDE I use to compile this with (which compiles it using MinGW 4.7.0).  I may or may not test out compiling t his with a newer MinGW 64bit compiler I installed, but I wish to limit my headaches to one thing at a time, so I may put that on  the shelf for now until I get this running 100% with the default 32bit compiler.  I want to do more work on this and get it done.  I took a break from working on this for quite a while, I just haven't had the enthusiasm to do it, but I would like to complete it as I do like this version.  I'll probably read back over some of these notes I made a few months ago and see what I was doing last and put more effort into getting something out.  I also want to update the one on my website and make a proper installer for it I think to make certain it goes into a default location which is safe to write to so I don't get complaints that the editor don't save (not my fault, blame Windows).
   (note: read my old notes and re-read the Allegro.cc website conversation, now I remember the problems and I had solved them at the time too, whew!  I didn't want to start off by fixing errors again!)
   
December 31, 2014
-----------------
@12:47pm v14.12.31 (1247)
   I started to add in mouse support again.  I really want to get that working as it will be needed for the options screen.  I also want to work on making certain joystick support works, but that will have to wait a while as I don't have a working joystick for this computer.  Maybe I'll go shopping for a cheap USB joystick and see what I can do.
@1:50pm
   I am quite pleased, the mouse seems to be working very well!  I'm not sure why, I think some of the changes I made in the keyboard routines which I copied and used for the mouse also helped fix some of the problems I used to have with it.  It appears as though it may end up working out quite well.  I just want to disable it for gameplay and only have it appear for menus and such.
@2:42pm v14.12.31 (1448)
   I got the mouse so it hide the pointer during game play, but shows it for the game menu which pops up if you press ESC.  Just need to make the mouse work on the options screen now.  I added in mouse checks in the wait_for_keypress() function I made which is used when waiting for a keypress at the title screen etc.  Just a few simple lines of code and it responds to a mouse click.  This is nice as that function is used in many places, like the about screen etc.  Once the mouse is enabled and working on the options screen, I should be able to get working on actually completing the options part of the game, the only real incomplete part of the game.  I'll also need to add in multiplayer support, that is, the ability to select how many players will be playing, currently it is fixed at 1 player.  I am not certain if I wish to fix it at just 4 players, or perhaps make it selectable so you can have any amount?  I think maybe just 4 players or things could get complicated if people select too many players.
@4:16pm v14.12.31 (1616)
   Okay, got the options mouse working properly.  I had extra problems with the mouse not showing lighting up certain buttons which were already selected, even though the mouse was over them.  I needed to add in code to the GUI section which returned true when it checked a button if the mouse was over it.  Previously it would obly return true if a button's state had changed, but if the state was the same, even if the mouse was over it, it would still come back false when it should signal true for a state change OR the mouse being over it, state change or not.  Anyhow, it works.  Now to figure out how I will implement volume change controls, that should be a nice little headache.
   I am thinking for the volume controls, I could have a right and left arrow which then adjusts the volume level up or down 1 for each click/keypress.  This would be simple to implement, just two arrows maybe with a numerical display which shows 1-10 for volumes.  Perhaps use the digital numbers to make it look nice.  This may not be as much of a headache as I thought, the mouse support will make this screen much easier.
@11:32pm v14.12.31 (2331)
   I got a lot done.  I added in sound and volume controls to options.  You can now turn either one on or off as well as adjust the volume.  The volume adjustment for the music is still a little clunky, but that is because of how Allegro 5 handles sound now.  You can play and stop music and sound, but you cannot adjust the volume of music while it is playing without jumping thought a lot of hoops.  The only solution without me doing a LOT of programming, is to stop and restart the music each time the volume is adjusted.  It's a minor hiccup really.  I just don't feel it is worth the frustration for me to go through all the major headaches of setting up a sound system so I can adjust the music's volume level in the options menu on the rare occasion that someone might need to adjust it.  This one of the issues with Allegro 5 that I don't like, how they implemented the sound system, but you just can't get through to some people.  They love to overcomplicate things just to show off their programming skills I think to add in more power where it will rarely be used for video games, but I gave up on trying to explain this to them a while back.  Anyhow, I had to add in code so I could stop the music which is already playing in options, plus I had to add in checks so if you exit options after adjusting volumes etc... without saving your changes, that it resets your old settings.  There's a lot of little things that happens in the background you tend not to think about until you program them yourself.  Anyhow, I am pleased with the result thus far.  Oh, I also had to edit the digital numbers, they originally had a transparent background which wasn't really needed as they were only used in two spots in the game and both spots I wanted a black background, so I redone them so they are no longer transparent.  They still look the same, except in options, you get a solid black background which looks better.
   
January 1, 2015  *** HAPPY NEW YEAR ***
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
@12:30am
   Just noticed, on my intro screen, the main game screen, high score screen and a few others the close button for the game window does not shut the game down.  I need to look into that next and fix it so it works on all screens.
@1:10pm v15.1.1 (1310)
   I added in code to the options screen to toggle shadows on and off.  It worked perfectly the first time.  I noticed a few items that still showed shadows, two menus on the main game screen, the level start message and the small game menu.  They will be easy fixes, I just forgot to put a check in them for settings.shadow which is where it stores whether you want shadows on or not.
   
January 2, 2015
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
@1:59pm v15.1.2 (1359)
   I decided to change the ghost sounds they make when you eat them to what they used to be, the "Oww" sounds (3 of them, it chooses at random) which were made using my wife Wanda's voice.  I like the effect and also wanted to have her in there somewhere. :)  As a result, I ended up using the new effect I had been using for the ghosts on the pickup/tool eating effect instead, which works out nicely as now it is a unique sound effect just for eating pickups which I wanted.
@2:32pm v15.1.2 (1432)
   When changing the sound effects around I encountered a new error.  IF a file fails to load, the game would jump to my shutdown() function which clears any memory allocated and shuts down certain files like the high score system which when the game ends, normally writes any high scores to the drive before exiting BUT, if the game fails for some reason before the high score system is initialized and is forced to shut down then the game will crash when it goes to write the non-existent high scores to the drive (they weren't initialized and loaded yet!).  So added a new boolean variable which gets set to true when the high score is initialized.  The shutdown() function  then checks this variable before it attempts to shut down the high score system.  If it was never initialized than it doesn't need to be shut down and we get no crash.  The crash also had the effect of leaving one of the high score files empty, so the next time you run the game it crashes again because of that!  I also noticed I was checking the wrong variable in one of my files I was loading (copy/paste "bug" ;) ), so I will probably go over my loading code again just to make certain I didn't make this mistake elsewhere.
   I also added in an error check for one of my malloc() calls in my high score system, just to be safe.  It will probably never fail, but it's best to be safe.  I also added in a boolean return value to the function so it returns true if it fails to initialize so the game can exit cleanly.
@2:46 v15.1.2 (1444)
   Added in some simple code to the wait_for_keypress() function so it responds properly to the close button being clicked.
@3:22pm v15.1.2 (1521)
   Added in an option to toggle OpenGL on/off from the options menu.
   
January 8, 2015
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
@3:15pm v15.1.8 (1514)
   Added the rest of the options to the options menu.  I decided to leave out options for vsync, frequency and obviously cheat mode from the main options screen.  They can still be adjusted from the ini file, but they're not something people need to be messing with.  The game doesn't need vsync at all as it sets up a timer interrupt and the game's speed is entirely governed by that, all vsync would do is possibly slow the game down, cause hiccups etc... but it is still available if for some odd reason it is needed.  Same with the monitor frequency option, the game uses the default setting, so there is no real need to adjust it, but it is available in the ini file.  And of course cheat mode is a no brainer, available in the ini file, off by default.  I could have probably even left opengl support off  the screen, but I wanted to display support for it, even though on Windows it uses DirectX by default as DirectX is faster (with this library, OpenGL is actually faster when done right, but the library has some strange issues with it, speed wise).  I just need to add in code to save the options settings to disk, I'll probably use the same code the game uses to write the default ini file when the game is first run and it finds no such file.
@10:10pm v15.1.8 (2210)
   Added a new save_config() function to my game so now options can save any changes you make.  The next time you boot the game it will load any changes you made the last time you played.  If you delete the ini file it will create a new one with default settings, so if things bugger up, no problem.  I'm very pleased that this portion of the game is complete!  I may even release this.
   

February 13, 2015
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
@12:34am v15.2.13 (0017)
   Fixed some minor omissions from the level editor code.  If for some reason a level failed to open, it could return without properly closing certain handles and switching back to the right modes.  I may double check the load and save functions just to be certain I didn't miss anything else.
   I also tried out compiling with a newer built of Allegro 5, v5.1.9 built by someone for me, but it was full of bugs.  I had also compiled it with MinGW 4.8.1, but there were too many bugs due to the library being built wrong so I had to revert back to MinGW 4.7.0 and Allegro 5.1.8 and it works fine.  I may switch it back to 5.0.10 as whomever built 5.1.8 left debugging information on so it can create this huge allegro.log file each run no matter if I run the release or the debug version!  Sheesh, I just don't get why these morons can't compile these libraries properly, it should be obvious to the most brain dead person that a release version should NOT output debug information!!!  I may have to sit down and try compiling this myself, or better yet, release the game as is, just delete the extra options which are NOT important for it to run anyhow and be done with it and this library.  I am quite sick of it not being maintained properly and in the future I may use SDL, even though it is not as good as Allegro, it is at least being maintained.  I may even not bother and use straight windows code and learn to do it all myself.  Games won't be cross platform, but... I don't care anymore! :)  It's not like I make ANY money on this game.  You would think that with over 2 MILLION DOWNLOADS to date and as much as 3000 downloads a week, there would be more donations at least but... and I am not trying to get rich off this, but I do get sick of working on it and when that happens, unless I have some sort of incentive to keep working, the game dies.  That's why you should ALL send programmers who create these free games $1.  That's it!  Just $1.  If I got $1 from each and every person who downloaded this... well, you do the math... with over 2 million downloads, I would be plenty motivated to work on this. ;)
   Anyhow, enough whining.  I think later on today I will work on DELETING functions rather than finishing them, maybe make ONE screen to list donaters I did have as they deserve mention, then call it quits on this.
   
February 23, 2015
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
@1:57pm v15.2.23 (1334) DEMO
   I'm still using Allegro 5.1.8 for the Demo version of the game.   I am compiling the Editor with Allegro 5.1.9 though as it has an important bug fix with file saving where it will insert a default filename.  But I will not use 5.1.9 with the main game as it still has bugs and will crash.  This is not due to the library I don't think, but mainly due to the person that compiled it (not me).  I also limited the DEMO version of the game to only loading 10 levels at maximum, and it can only load custom levels into level 1.  This gives people a chance to try the game out with incentive to BUY it.  Yes, I plan on going pay, but only like, $1 or $2 for the game, I'm not sure yet, but certainly under $5, so no huge cost, just so I have incentive to continue to support the game.  Otherwise I could release it for free and then stop support totally and move on to something else, doesn't matter to me, but I will need some form of financial incentive to continue working on this.
   If I decide to stop working on this in the future, I will probably release it for free down the road, source code and all, but when that will be is anyone's guess.
   I may also offer the full version for free, just without the level editor (get it with a donation).  The more I think about it, the more of a headache I get as I am not in it for the money.  <shrug>
   After fixing some problems with the level editor (PACE) I updated the map version number to reflect the changes, so old maps will not work with this version.  Such is life with test versions.
@2:52pm v15.2.23 (1452) DEMO
   Removed the ABOUT and CREDITS menu items as they would not be used anyhow.  This keeps the main menu a little simpler looking.  I can always add about info to the HELP screen and perhaps credits when the player quits the game, if at all.  I worked on this game solo, so there really is no reason for any credits without more people working on it.  The menu looks less cluttered now and this will reduce the size of the game slightly (not by much really).  I just don't see the need to put effort into menu items that will probably very rarely, if ever, be used.
@3:34pm v15.2.23 (1534) DEMO
   Added error message if a player tries to load a saved game when one isn't found.
   Deleted unused graphics and fonts which were in the PAK file.
   
March 23, 2015
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
@3:03pm v15.3.23 (1450) DEMO
   Found a small bug in the code where if you pressed escape at the start of a new game where it shows  the level and is waiting for you to press a key to start, than the timers, which were all stopped while waiting, don't get restarted because pressing escape causes the game to break out of the main game loop.  So now instead of breaking out right away, it will set a boolean to true if you press escape, then it will restart the timers and then it will check if the boolean was set and break out of the main game loop at that point.  The reason why this was a problem is because the main game timer is stopped at this point and it controls how smooth the game runs, all the animated parts etc.  If it is stopped, some spots in the game don't update properly.  In this case, the main menu wasn't showing back up because the fading code wasn't updating etc.  Anyhow, it was a very simple fix.
   I just need to add in code so the player can select how many players will be playing, in the old game I had 1 to 4 players.  I was thinking of doing that again, but that wouldn't be an update.  I may add in arrows where you click to raise the number of players to whatever you like, maybe 1 to 9.  A single digit value.  Shouldn't be too difficult to add in (famous last words).
   
June 25, 2015
~~~~~~~~~~~~~
@7:03pm v15.6.25 (1856) DEMO
   Tried to compile the game with a newer version of the Allegro 5 library + MinGW 4.8.1-4 and ran into a pile of problems.  I changed from C to C++ to compile it which led to some more problem.  I managed to fix some code I had which could potentially cause problems, initialized certain variables earlier on in the code.  Anyhow, there are some bugs with the new version of Allegro.  I ended up switching back to allegro 5.1.8 (or 5.1.9 it says in the console).  I recompiled my game from scratch using the version that worked before and it ran flawlessly.
   I also changed my command line compilation switch from -std=C11 to -std=gnu11, I am not sure what the difference is, this normally sets the compiler to the C 2011 standard which I prefer (I HATE C++!), but the C11 switch caused problems with some newer MinGW which was fixed using the gnu11 switch, so I'll have to look up the difference between the two but I absolutely refuse to use C++, it is bloated and the newer C, 2011 standard added much more functionality to C (threading etc).  I am so happy there is still a community of developers maintaining C.  Yes, we're out there, lurking in the shadows. ;)
      
June 26, 2015
~~~~~~~~~~~~~
@2:25pm v15.6.26 (1423) DEMO
   Okay, what a difference a night makes!  Last night I decided to take one last look at what could be causing the problems with the newer Allegro 5.1.11, mainly because I wanted to help the guys (Edgar Reynaldo) who has been working so hard on getting it running, compiling etc.  I wouldn't feel right if I just let this go without trying to solve it, so I recompiled the game again with his version of Allegro and this time when it ran into the error, I opened the allegro.log file up while the game was running, before it could get too large and figured it out it was failing because it was looking for some DLL files (something it should not be doing because this is what is called a "static" build which means all that sort of thing is built into the main executable).  I also found out why it was freezing up when the game tried to exit.  When my game exits it tries to shut down the video screen, normally I would not do this, but in this game I have a function to do it in case someone switches resolution while the game is running.  Anyhow, the game was trying to shut down the screen (main video screen, de-allocate memory etc) before it unloaded the video memory which was being used for other things like the fonts etc, that caused it to go into an infinate loop trying to shut it down.  Now, this was probably my fault, the only question is, why didn't it fail on previous versions of Allegro?  Perhaps because it never failed during initialization?  I can't be certain.  Anyhow, the fix was simple, I moved the code that shuts down  the screen to after it destroys the fonts etc, I honestly don't know why I didn't do that in the first place, but we're all human and no matter how good your code is (and this project has went rather well for me to be honest!) you're bound to make a mistake.  It's the minor ones like this that goes unnoticed.  
   As for the newer Allegro, that was Edgar's mistake, but that makes him as human as I am.  I reported the problem to him, someone else in t he forums chimed in and gave a solution to the problem on Edgar's end and he quickly recompiled and fixed it!  Yay!  Nice work Edgar, I appreaciate it.  Remember, the good guys that work on Allegro do not get paid for it, it's from their own free time etc, so I DO appeaciate their work!
   So anyhow, there's hope for this yet.  At least now I don't need to keep two separate versions of Allegro and MinGW to compile the level editor and game with.  I was compiling the level editor with the newer version so file names showed up, but the main game with an older version to avoid the bugs.  Now I can, and have done both with Allegro 5.1.11, yay!  There's light at the end of the tunnel for this! ;)
   
July 3, 2015
~~~~~~~~~~~~
@2:49pm v15.7.3 (1448) DEMO
   I added in a screen where you select the number of players, it works for the most part, you can press ESC to take you back to the main menu which doesn't quit work, I need to change a few variables to indicate to reload the main menu if a player ESCs from the number of player selection screen.  I also tested the game as is, and there are other multiplayer problems.  When the game switches from one player to another, if a player just got done and died, when it switches to the screen the next player was on, the level just appears, it doesn't slide in like I want it, so I will need to check that.  Also, if player 1 is on say, level 2, and they die and the game switches to player 2 who is on a different level, the position where tools etc.. .appears remains at the location it was on the previous level rather than the level the current player is on, so that also needs to be checked, I probably forgot to reload it.  Also, a more major problem is that is player 1 dies then the game switches to player 2, the game will crash.  Again, probably a simple matter of checking important variables and resetting them.  This is the first time I have worked on the multiplayer aspect of this game.  I may have to peak at my Deluxe Pacman 1 code to see if there is anything I missed here that I done there.  I also want to make certain the code is expandable, so if I decide to add in more players later on, I can easily do so without rewriting the game.
@3:10pm
   I moved the intro so it runs before the loop for the main menu so that you don't see the intro if you ESC out of the # of players selection screen or other menus.  The only time you should see the intro again after you reach the main menu is if you die, or otherwise end the current game.  I also moved code to stop the music and other sounds from playing once you are done at the main menu until after the main menu calling loop is done, otherwise if the player ESC's the # of player selection screen you won't hear the music anymore.  Now the music doesn't stop playing until you've selected the number of players and are ready to play the actual game.
@8:56pm v15.7.3 (2020) DEMO
   Fixed more problems with multiplayer, had some code within an if block (code inside a set of braces which is only executed for a positive if test) which initialized the tool and pickup data after a new level was loaded.  I needed to move it outside the if block so it initialized that code no matter what, otherwise it only got initialized after a new level was loaded.  In game with several players, if one player died and it switched players, technically the level that the next player is on hasn't changed so this code never gets executed and so the tool/pickup positions on the map don't get updated and still have the value of the other player's map.  If the positions are the same as the current map, no problem, otherwise, you have a tool/pickup appearing just about anywhere, BUT, you can only pick it up at the proper map location which you don't know unless you played it.  Anyhow, THAT is fixed.  Now I have a problem where if you have, say, a 2 player game.  Player 2 dies and their game is over, the game then switches to player 1 for him to finish off his game, but it crashes.  The only difference between the code I just changed and what happens is the fact that one of the player's game is over completely (out of lives).  So there has to be a global variable which has not been updated that is crashing things.  I may have to get enthusiastic and redo all the variables so they are stored in the specific player data... we'll see.  I just want to get this game completed at the moment.
@10:10pm v15.7.3 (2205) DEMO
   I found the problem with the multiplayer crash when one of the players dies.  When the pacman death animation is finished, I forgot to reset the pacman's animation frame back to 1, so when the next player started, the game tried to draw the last frame in the animation + 1, and of course, no such image exists so... CRASH!  It wasn't a problem with a single player as when your game was over, there was no need to reset the animation because it would be exiting to the high score screen and then the main menu.  But in a game with more than one player it goes back to the start of the loop, switches players... the code that originally set the animation to the first frame is outside of that loop.  It's a case of not quite planning ahead.  But I don't mind as most of this game hasn't been much of a problem with regard to my own code.  It may not be the best code you ever seen, I don't know that I want anyone to see it, but I am proud of the fact that most of it has worked the first time I entered it, due to heavy planning on my part.
   Oh, I also forgot to unlock a texture in the game over sequence, I am not certain if this contributed to any problems or even if I have to unlock it before I destroy it, but just to be safe I put code in to unlock the texture before I destroy it.  In this instance, locking the texture as read only in video memory makes it faster to read and display.  I don't 100% understand what this does to be honest, but it's a feature of the Allegro 5 library.
@11:44pm v15.7.3 (2343) DEMO
   Fixed some minor mouse problems on the main menu and player selection screen.
   There was a problem with the LOAD GAME option I had introduced when I was trying to fix some other issues.  It would load the game, then reset some of the variables which buggered up some of the level settings.  I set the code back to what it was before (it wasn't a problem in the first place, I just forgot to reset it).  I still want to check to make certain the close button works on all the menus, so far so good, but I think there's at least one that needs fixing, I just forgot which! ;)

July 4, 2015
~~~~~~~~~~~~
@12:14am v15.7.4 (0013) DEMO
   Fixed a problem when switching from regular Fullscreen mode back to windowed mode.  The mouse would be all out of whack due to the change in resolution and scaling factors etc.  I didn't normally need to scale the mouse co-ordinates or anything in regular window mode, usually only in a fullscreen window due to the window's increased size.  Technically a regular fullscreen mode isn't a larger size, but when you switch back from it to a normal window, for some reason the mouse co-ordinates get buggered up.  Anyhow, I fixed this by calling my scaling function I used for the fullscreen window for the normal window as well to ensure the mouse co-ordinates get reset.  Incidentally, I discovered this bug while testing the close button, my guess is that with the mouse co-ordinates buggered up, it didn't know where the close button was either.  I'll retest this just to be sure.
   I just retested it.  The mouse buttons work properly, but the close button does not work if you go from fullscreen to windowed mode.  I am thinking this could be a bug with Allegro itself and will check online for a solution (if any).  Otherwise I will probably just have to put a warning about this somewhere in the game documentation for now.
@1:01pm v15.7.4 (1301) DEMO
   Okay, I discovered the problem with the close screen bug.  When the display changes, the program needs to register the display in the event_queue in order to use the close button again.  I'm still not sure why this worked when changing from fullscreen windowed mode to windowed as that wasn't registered again either, but it all works now.  Lesson learned. 
@2:03pm v15.7.4 (1203) DEMO
   I added more code to handle the close button in other areas of the program where it wasn't handled properly.  The game menu, and in game as well as the high score screen didn't handle the close button properly.
@2:56pm v15.7.4 (1456) DEMO
   I added in code to unregister the display with the event queue before it destroys the display.  the display is then registered with the event queue when it is recreated.  This is important in order that certain display events, like the close button being clicked, show in the event queue so the game can properly handle it.  This is especially important if a person changes the screen mode, when the mode is changed, the display is destroyed and then recreated, so code had to be added to update the display in the event queue.
   
July 7, 2015
~~~~~~~~~~~~
@10:54pm v15.7.7 (2254) DEMO
   Fixed some errors in the level loading function.  Under certain rare circumstances, if a level failed to load the level file would not be closed and the physfs interface would not be reset properly, which would cause more problems.  I am also investigating using certain Allegro 5 functions with PACE (level editor) to point to the games folder right away when you go to load a level, rather than having to navigate to it the first time it is run.

July 8, 2015
~~~~~~~~~~~~
@1:38pm v15.7.8 (0137) DEMO
   Fixed more potention bugs in the level editor and game level loading functions.  I also added in code which will now remember the level filename you loaded when you go to save it again.  So if you do not wish to save the level with a different name, than you only need to click okay and it should save it with the same name as it had when you loaded it.  The editor should also always default to saving in the same folder that the main game executable is in, which makes more sense.  You won't need to navigate around your computer trying to remember where you installed the game the first time you go to load or save anymore.  
@11:29pm v15.7.8 (2329) DEMO
   I didn't realize I needed to include the openAl dll file!  I guess Allegro 5.1.11 can't statically compile it, so I'll finish up my level editor changes, and if all goes well, I'll need to get a new version online ASAP!
   Anyhow, I fixed the level editor so now it defaults to filename "level001.dp2" when it is first started, if you do not load any levels, that will be the default level name to save as.  When you go to load a level that is also the default name until you select something else.  Once you have loaded a level, that level's filename will be the one used when you go to save it again.

July 10, 2015
~~~~~~~~~~~~~
@1:55am v15.7.10 (0138) DEMO
   Fixed a minor bug with my options.  The Fullscreen and Fullscreen Window modes were reversed.  I also cleaned up some code, like adding in switch/case statements for screen mode selection rather than ugly multiple IFs and IF ELSE's.  This also allowed me to set a default mode of windowed if the wrong number is set using the switch()'s default statement.  Also yesterday I didn't put a log entry in, but I also had to redo the game so the gcc's dll was included with the game, it is needed for some odd reason out of my control.
   So this SHOULD work okay now... famous last words.  (well, it did work okay, just some screen mode mixups)

September 6, 2015
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
@11:54pm v15.9.06 (1147)
   Changed the code so that multiple levels are supported and got rid of all limits.  This is the full version.  I may or may not create more levels for this later on, but I figured I was better off just releasing this and getting it overwith, otherwise it may sit on my computer for another year or longer and never get out there.  I would have liked to earn SOMETHING from this, but I'm not that nieve, so.. this is it.  No guarantees it will be worked on again unless I get donations because my interest in the game is basically gone and if I don't have any other incentive to work on it, than I will move on to something else.  Enjoy.
   
September 9, 2015
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
@3:50pm v15.9.09 (1547)
   I added in simple DELETE key code to the high score screen so that if pressed, it will clear the high scores and set them all to zero and the names all to "empty".  Also, when the game is first installed, the high scores now all default to zero and "empty" for the entire list.  There is no "ARE YOU SURE" prompts yet, I will probably add that in later on.  I just wanted to get this in there, plus a couple other fixes.
   
September 12, 2015
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
@3:50am v15.9.12 (0350)
   I forgot to fix a minor bug so added some code to make things more secure.
   
September 25, 2015
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
@1:10am v15.9.25 (0106)
   I removed some cheat keys to make room for other more important keys.  I mainly added in WSAD key support for moving the pacman so now you have cursor keys, numeric keypad and WSAD.  I really need to get joystick support added in soon, even if I can't test it myself.
@2:40am
   There were errors again about the missing OpenAL and C dlls which is annoying, I thought this was fixed!  Anyhow, I will now distribute them with the game as I am through trying.  So long as things work, they're really not large enough files to even care about to be honest.

January 28, 2016
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
@3:53am v16.01.28 (0353)
   A new Allegro version was released (actually there have been a couple, I just haven't been keeping this up to date lately).  Version 5.1.13 was just released the other day, so I added it to the game and recompiled everything.  I also fiddled around with some numbers so I could properly regulate the animation speeds no matter what I set t he maximum frame rate to.  I still need to fix the ghosts when they transition back from scared state, they blink way too fast.  I think I need a new variable to count down between blinks, the value of this variable will depend on the current redraw rate etc.  
   Some other things I still plan to do is to update the ghost pathfinding.  It is horribly slow.  It works, but the way I did it was very bad, I don't know what I was thinking at the time but I have some new code to insert into the game, a some new C vector/stack functions which, when used with an array, will allow me to store specific map grid locations that need to be updated in the path check on the stack, and then on each update pass, ONLY update those grid locations, adding them to a checked array, then adding adjoining, unchecked cells to the stack to be checked as well on the next pass.  The way I was doing it was to loop through the entire map and update grid locations that were not set yet, but this was horribly innefficient and looped over the entire grid many many times, going over cells that were already checked.  I did modify the parameters to narrow this search, but it is still woefully inefficient compared to just using a stack and ONLY checking cells that need to be checked.  I will also recode the game so that rather that checking for a path from the ghosts to the player, I will instead start at the player and fill the entire path grid, starting at his location on out, and then the ghosts will only need to follow that.  The grid would also ONLY have to be updated if the player moves to a new cell.  It would not be updated based on the ghost's movement at all because the ghosts can just check the path grid, then follow the numbers (lowest grid values) until it reaches the player, because the path grid does a flood fill algorithm starting at the player and fillig the grid.  It should be interesting to see how much faster this makes the game.  I may look for other ways to improve the speed.  Check what parts of the level are being drawn, what needs to be redrawn, and what can be ignored possibly.  Perhaps locking some textures in that are static as well would help.  We'll see.
   I don't know WHY I am working on this, but I just do not like leaving it incomplete I guess.  I also need to update the code for the high score special backgroud effect to slow it down when there is a higher frame rate, do some math to calculate a delay based on the redraw timer speed.  Once all that is done, I want to create 100 levels for the game, maybe make a levels complete, finish up any TODOs I have marked in the code and be done with it.  Maybe release a paid for 100 level version? <shrug>
   I should look into STEAM, someone else on teh Allegro forums is releasing an Allegro game on STEAM, so that got me curious if this is possible, it could be a good way to earn some money from this if I make a few changes perhaps.
   
   
February 4, 2016
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
@1:39am v16.02.04 (0117)
   I spent almost the entire day working on totally rewriting the ghost pathfinding code.  I ended up ripping out the old code which was horrible and lengthy and rewrote it using the floodfill pathfinding algorithm, which is basically what it was, it was just implemented very poorly.  I also wrote code which creates a sort of stack for this path finding function.  I had many difficulties debugging this with smaller issues, things I forgot to do, then I had a problem with the stack as it pops off cells to check in reverse order, the last one you put on becomes the first one off, which is a problem with this as I need it to check the cells in order that I add them, otherwise it messes up the pathfinding totally.  I ended up rewriting some of my stack code so that instead of pushing the last cell on top of the stack, it puts it on the bottom, which is a little slower, but not by much, given the amount of data I am storing in this game.  So now, it moves the entire stack over by 1, which opens up the spot at the beginning, then it inserts the new cell info there.  I could probably use a memcopy() function call to speed this up, but I honestly never seem to have much luck with that, so I stuck with a simple loop.  It seems to work fairly fast, it sets the path up perfectly and it is also used in the map editor which uses it for error checking during the validation process and that works well now too.  So I am pleased, I FINALLY got this function, which was bugging me rewritten.
   Some other small changes were I fiddled with the game's timing so that I can update the screen more often (higher FPS) and the game will still run smoothly.  I find with a higher update speed, things seems to run smoother.  I still need to test this on Wanda's computer, if it is smoother on her system than I will be happy.
   I also had a minor issue with the © Copyright symbol not displaying again.  Somehow my compiler's encoding got changed back to the system default.  It needs to be set to UTF-8 to display this (and probably for foreign language characters which I want to support as well).
   I also reprogrammed the game so it now loads in older version 1 levels as well as the normal version 2 levels.  There wasn't much difference anyhow.  The level editor will save as version 2 (but will load 1 & 2 like the main game).
@4:00pm v16.02.04 (1400)
   I removed one of the rotating flares from the highscore background.  It looks just fine as it is and this may speed things up.  I may even stop them from rotating entirely if needed, but I would like to keep the effect as is if I can.
   
   
February 7, 2016
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
@11:48pm v16.02.07 (2342)
   I added in a new feature to the level editor, you can now press the cursor keys/keypad arrow keys (2, 4, 6 & 8) or the WSAD keys to shift the level around.  For example, if you press UP/Keypad 8/W, the entire level will shift up one cell.  All spawns will move with the level if they are set.  You will need to revalidate the map if you move it, and some things may not work  the way you planned, like wrap errors and such.  But it could make for some interesting levels and help you center things etc.  I used memcpy() to copy the rows and columns of data much faster.

February 29, 2016
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
@3:23pm v16.02.29 (1523)
   Created a few new levels for the game.  I used the new level editor feature to create a few of them.  I shifted the level a little so I could connect the lines that go off the edges just for fun.
   I may add in a teleport pad feature in the near future, depends on my motivation.  I got a couple donations which always help, but I do wish to start on something new.  I'll probably make the teleport pad as I really like that idea and it should not be difficult to implement, then finish creating extra levels.  I was thinking of making a 100 level version just for people who donated.
   
March 20, 2016
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
@2:33am v16.03.20 (0232)
   Found a bug again, one that I had before where sometimes it would not detect external player made levels, so I went back to using some code that definitely works and I will stick to that from now on.  I was using the Allegro function for this, but it is buggy.  I also fixed a few other things up, and I am almost ready to add in Joystick support which should be nice.
   
March 20, 2016
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
@1:50pm v16.03.20 (1350)
   Working on adding in a suicide speed mode at the request of Bruce Yurth. After some testing, it actually looks like it will be a fun addition to the game, albeit a tad insane if you get all the game's speed boosts!  But it isn't called suicide for naught! ;)
   
March 21, 2016
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
@12:14am v16.03.21 (0014)
   I removed ALL the additional code I had added that checked for hacking.  This is a lot of additional work and I honestly do not wish to be wasting my time on it, plus it breaks the game in ways I dislike.  If people wish to hack the game, I do not support it, and cannot support it, mainly for legal reasons and also because I just don't like it.  With that said, if you use hacks on this game, and something goes horribly wrong, I warned you not to.  I will however persue anyone who copys my data from this game, like graphics, sound etc... without my permission and I will, if needed, take legal action.  Hacking the game is one thing, violating my copyright is another matter totally.  It doesn't take much work to create your own stuff, even make your own game, if I can do it, you can too.  If you wish to use my work, pay me for it or do it yourself.  
   With that said I added in a SUICIDE SPEED mode to the OPTIONS menu as requested by Bruce Yurth.  It turned out to be a great idea, the CTRL energy speedups still work, only in this mode, it gets insane, but fun.  As a result of the speedup, I needed to adjust other factors though.  Suicide speed doubles the speed of the player and ghosts, but it halves the time of the tools and how long the ghosts stay scared which balances it out.  Otherwise if you have suicide speed and something like diamonds which gives more points and the time was the same speed as normal gameplay, than you could gain far more points than another player at normal speed, this is why I needed to halve the timers if the speed is doubled.  I may add something to the high score screen later on to indicate when a person gains a high score when in suicide speed, perhaps a simple asterisk by their name, but that would require I add in more code that would need to be saved to the high score file. Joystick support coming next I think.
   
March 22, 2016
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
@1:33am v16.03.22 (0133)
   I cleaned up some of the graphics earlier today, the high score screen trophy graphic had a few minor flaws I didn't like and I thought it was a little dark.  I improved the Hall of Fame title graphic so it looks much nicer.  I also had a few errors with the tool graphics, they were slightly overlapping each other in spots so I fixed that.  They weren't very noticable really, but they bugged me. ;)
   I have been adding in joystick code.  It's fairly straight forward and actually quite interesting, there are 9 buttons on my $30 joystick!  9! Then there's 3 different axis', an X (right & left), a Y (up and down) and there are two buttons on the front which behave slightly differently, the right is a negative analog range, and the right is a positive, these would be used like throttles, like a car driving gas and brake I would imagine.  There are three joysticks with the X & Y axis, they can be digital (which is -1, 0 or +1 on both axis) or analog (which ranges from -1.0 to +1.0, and many in between, like 0.1456 etc... often used in flight or car simulations for gradual steering).  Quite interesting anyhow.  For programming, I treat the joystick much like I do the keyboard, you basically check for button presses up and down and joystick axis changes, far different than the mouse checks where you have to check the mouse position then do a check to see if it is over a button etc.  The joystick actually takes the least amount of code to program it, which is rather nice. I am using button 1 (A, green) to behave like the keyboard ENTER, button 2 (B, red) to behave like ESC, and unique the Joystick, the START button will be like clicking the PLAY button (only works when on the main menu), that is button 7 on the joystick.  I am not sure if all joysticks are standard like this or not, time will tell, but at the very least, all joysticks will have 1 button at least, which is usable with this so far.  I am almost done, I just need to add in code for the main game as well as  the in game mini-menu and the high score screen.
   There is more code I could add where one could select from many joysticks connected to a system, I could even make the joystick configurable so you selected which buttons do what.  Maybe in the future, but for a game as simple as this, I see no need.  But in future games, I want to add this in, as well as keyboard configuring etc... just to get some practise in programming this sort of thing.
   I also would like to work out a way to control gameplay with the mouse! I am thinking a semitransparent overlay which goes into the buttom right corner of the game, you could see through it and it would have four arrows you could click on.  I could then use this in the future if I wanted to try and port this to the Android.  Time will tell.
@4:58pm
   Well, I done more work on the joystick code.  The digital input of it can be a little flakey, but I don't see a way to correct that.  If you hold the digital in one direction and then kinda slide your thumb around to a different one, sometimes it seems to get stuck on one axis (left<->right for example when you want to go down), you need to let go of the control, let it center, then push down.  I hate this, but I see no way to correct it at this time.  Analog joystick seems less of a problem this way.  I will search online for solutions.  The game crashed again as well, it was a memory access violation which REALLY has me confused as none of my new joystick code has code to access memory like that.  I ran the game for over an hour playing it non-stop and do you think it would crash again while I had a debugger running?  Noooooooooooooo.... I hate these sort of vague bugs, and both times it happened near the start of level 2, when nothing spectacular happens so... I dunno.  The first time it crashed was at the start of level 2 while I was testing the joystick, but the second time, it was at the same location only I was using the cursor keys so... I am stumped.  From now on I need to remember to test the game ONLY in debug mode so I can catch the location.
   I also just noticed something I missed!  For the in game mini menu, I forgot to add in WSAD and keypad support!  I'll go over all the various input code I have and check to see where else I forgot it. I added in a TODO for it.
   
March 25, 2016
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
@1:05am v16.03.25 (0002)
   I worked a little more on joystick support, done some bug fixing and still trying to figure out exactly what those crashes were.  I get the feeling it was related to the joystick as I never had them before.  It's a VERY RARE crash, like on a blue moon, on a friday, during the spring equinox at prcisely midnight type of thing.  It crashed when I wasn't running it in the debugger so I couldn't detect where the crash happened.  So naturally when I ran it again in the debugger, over an hour of game play it didn't crash!  LOL... grrr... I am hoping it was just some freak thing, because the ONLY code that was changed at that time was joystick related, and the ONLY time it crashed before was if the joystick was not plugged in (fixed THAT one).  I strongly suspect this is a bug in the Allegro 5 library itself as I have seen a bit of chatter concerning joystick problems in the 5.0.x codebase, but some of these were dealt with in the 5.1.x code base, which is what I use so... <shrug> I will thuroughly test the game (already have today a lot) and try one last time to get it to crash, I may even leave it running and go to bed all night long (with cheat mode + God mode enabled) and if it crashes overnight, I will have the location of the crash in the morning.  If it survives all night long, than I won't worry about it.
   After this, I am strongly thinking about making a totally new game using SDL2 instead of Allegro as SDL has good support, even STEAM supports it.  I was thinking about looking into Steam actually, maybe make something to get on there would be nice.  We'll see.  No matter what, SDL2 will be the next library of choice for me.  I will probably switch to using Visual Studio as well as it has MUCH nicer debugging tools.  I no longer care about cross platform support, Windows only is good enough for me (though with SDL2, if done right, I could still do cross platform).  Time will tell.

March 28, 2016
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
@8:12PM v16.03.28 (2009)
   I finished up joystick support.  It is a little flaky in how it operates, analog input seems to be better to use than digital.  This is  the fault of the library, but I may be able to improve it in the future, we'll see.  I really don't feel like spending a lot of time programming it as I am a keyboard person anyhow, but... time will tell.  I tested the game after unplugging the joystick while the game ran.  It didn't crash the game, which is good, but if you plug the joystick back in, the game no longer detected it, so I added in code to automatically detect if the joystick is disconnected and reconnected and it will automatically reconfigure joystick input so it works again.  I was really pleased to get that working.  I do have some ideas on improving joystick support, currently it is event driven, but I may redo it so it operates much like Deluxe Pacman 1 does, which is a state machine.  I think this would work better for Joystick input, but it will require a lot more reprogramming.  I will release this version as it is, and then perhaps work on a unified input system which I can use on all my games, something portable.  I may ditch the Allegro 5's joystick code and see if I can find out how to program it for DirectX, this would probably be a better way, but the downside is the game would no longer be cross platform... I honestly do not care about cross platform anymore, not if it means my game suffers in quality anyhow.
   I also want to add in other features, like a teleport pad and perhaps random levels and anything else I can remember.
   
March 29, 2016
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
@3:24pm v16.03.29 (1518)
   I managed to accidentally introduce a bug into the game a few versions ago.  When a tool which you already have is randomly selected, like an EXTRA letter or the clock, than it is supposed to just switch to giving you a random food pickup instead, but with some changes in my code, it reverts to a food pickup, you hear the sound of a pickup but nothing appears!  It was a minor coding mistake, I changed an "if" check to an "else" which made sense, but I forgot about that.  Fixed it anyhow plus added some other changes.  Rather than add energy to the player all over the program, it now calls a function which adds it, this way I can adjust any other settings to do with adding (or subtracting) energy in that one function an I don't have to jump all over my code.  I should have done this in the first place!  I also want to redo my input code so i have ONE unified input function I can use all over.  This will take much more work but will be worth it.  At least that is what I have planned in the future, IF I keep working on this game.  I may add in the teleporters and be done with it, or I may start work on a totally new version with large scrolling levels etc... this way I can redo it in SDL2 instead of Allegro and create a new PAK file standard which doesn't use ZIP, is encrypted and cannot be hacked.  If I make a new version, the level editor for it will be for DONATORS ONLY as well and I will be certain to litter any new version with hack protection.  I tried working with people before and allow them to hack, but they made demands and treated me like total crap even though this game is FREE and I put a lot of WORK into it, they still feel I somehow owe them something, well... I don't, and all they succeeded it doing was make me determined NEVER TO COOPERATE WITH THEM AGAIN!  Anyhow... bug fixed in this.
   
March 30, 2016
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
@12:47pm v16.03.30 (1232)
   There still seems to be some bugs with the joystick code that is interfering with the rest of the game.  The bugs are in the Allegro library itself and seeing as how I am not seeing much effort to correct them or otherwise deal with them, I am removing joystick support from the game at this time, perhaps permanently as I really do not wish to deal with this game anymore.  When I get psychopaths threatening me and my wife over this, than it is simply not worth working on at all.  I may just release this into the public domain or something and be done with it.
   With that said, I don't think some people realize just how angry I can get when my wife is threatened.  I threw our family doctor across the room when he made her cry, if anyone lays a finger on her, ever, I will paint the walls with their blood.  So... there's fair warning.  I don't back down or scare easily.  I am pretty easy to get along with, but I have bashed at least one man's head in for trying something with her.

March 31, 2016
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
@11:22pm Pace2
   I finally started work on adding on a teleporter to the game.  First I created a graphic that will be the teleporter, after some searching for inspiration (and finding porn of a nude woman's butt, because "teleport" reminds you of that, google image search is strange!) I finally settled on something that was totally my own creation, something similar to some of my buttons actually, I think it looks good anyhow.  I then started programming the level editor, as I always do, before the game, so I know what level data will be like.  One of the problems I thought about was different level versions.  I finally settled on having the load level function check the level ID first, which is "Pace2" by default so it knows that it is in fact a DP2 level.  It then checks the version of that level and if it is less than  the current version (1 or 2), than it sets a boolean variable which tells the loader this is an older level, there will be no teleport data in it, so the loader will just set default values for the levels teleport variables that basically tell it, there is none.  If the level is 3, than it will look for teleport data and load it.  This is an elegant solution I think and I will probably do this with future level versions, just add in booleans which tell the editor whether or not to load in new data for new features.  So far it loaded in older level formats with no problems, so it is off to a good start, that works.
   At this time, I only allow two teleport pads per level, when you go over one pad, it will teleport you to the other.  So the way the editor works internally, is that it sets a variable to zero, then when you place a pad, it sets it to 1.  The next time you place a pad, it places the second pad then resets the variable back to zero again and so on.  If you place a third teleport pad, it will be back to zero and you will simply move the first pad to some new location instead of having 3 pads.  I tested this and it works as expected.  I would like to be able to select which pad you are placing/moving, but with limited space on the editor, I am not certain I can do this, I may try and implement some method to select existing pads and perhaps place a yellow dash lined box around the one selected.  Perhaps with a function key or repeated clicks on the teleport button might be a nice solution.
   For validation I will only have to check the level.teleport array, it contains the location of both teleports, if they have both been placed, and are accessible (so I will also have to check a path to the player start) than it will validate.  There is no requirement to have teleports on a level at all, so if none exist, it will simply skip validating teleports and move on.  Also, ONLY the player can use the teleports, not ghosts.  In  the future I may also add in walls which only ghosts can move through, could be fun, could also give me a way to block access to the ghost's home from the player which would be nice.
   I also removed some code I still had which used to draw boxes for the ghost start locations.  I had added in code to draw the actual ghosts and forgot to remove the old code.  I also had some code which created a temporary bitmap for loading graphics in when I already had a temporary bitmap for doing that, what's worse is that I wasn't destroying the bitmap data from the temp bitmap after loading it, so I may have been creating a memory leak.  Not a big deal for the editor, but still, very stupid mistake.  I removed it and only use the one temp bitmap and I destroy the data after each load (it loads the files then draws the bitmap into video memory, then destroys the loaded one as it no longer needs it).  I will probably skim over my code later and look for other problems while I am here, maybe add more keyboard shortcuts in while I am at it and document them.  Not sure how useful they will be, but you never know.

April 1, 2016
~~~~~~~~~~~~~
@2:08am Pace2
   I added in code to validate the level with teleports and realized a couple mistakes.  For one, each tile had a default teleport value of zero if one is not set.  BUT, if you set a teleport, the first one is numbered... ZERO!  Oops!  Yeah, so I set the default value for each tile's teleport value to 99 instead.  When it is set, it will equal zero or one.  After I fixed this, I loaded one of my old levels, added one teleport, it detected the error and gave a validation problem.  I added another teleport so there was two, no problems.  I moved one of the teleporters and BAM, some code I added to detect too many teleports triggered.  Technically it should NEVER trigger, but I put it in, just in case, and good thing I did (this is a good lesson in never assuming something cannot happen!  Assume it will, as I did).  When a teleport is moved, the graphic moves, but I forgot to reset the old tile's teleport setting back to having nothing, so it picked that empty tile up as having one.  Simple fix, when I set a teleport up, I will first check to see if a position was already set, if so, I will clear it before I set a new position up.
   This has been rather fun to program in anyhow, I am anxious to see how this works out.  I will still have to come up with a sound effect and maybe a graphical effect when the pacman teleports.  I have some ideas but haven't settled on anything yet.
@5:50pm  Pace 2
   I added in code to move the teleports when you use the cursor keys to move the level around.  When testing out the editor I noticed a couple problems.  If a teleport is on the level, and I draw a line over it, the line gets drawn under it.  I probably just need to go over the line drawing code and add in detection for the teleports, it detects the ghost starts okay.  I also realize that I need to add in validation for the teleports that checks to make certain they are not isolated.  After that it SHOULD be okay.
   I am also thinking about different ways to implement having a variable set of lines.  I thought it would be easy at first, but I realized I have a fixed size array to hold them and that would need to totally change.  Instead, I may add in a button to load in a custom line set.  The editor could then save the name of the line set file, which would be loaded in from the same folder as the level.  If it is missing, the game could default to the first line set.  This was my original idea when I first designed this game, so I will probably stick with it.
   
April 2, 2016
~~~~~~~~~~~~~
@9:26pm v16.04.02 (2126)
   I temporarily removed hack protection.  I left the code in the game, but I set up some #defines so that it will not be compiled with the game unless I want it.  This way if things go bad again, I can easily re-enable them with little effort.  I hope I don't have to.  But I believe in forgiving someone, even if they didn't apologize, mainly for me, so I can move on and focus on what I enjoy.  I really hope this isn't a mistake, but I have to go with my gut on this.  If things turn sour again, I will re-enable them and that will be the end of any discussion on the matter. I am about through with this game anyhow, if this sort of thing keeps up, I will not bother anymore as it is just too stressful to deal with people and try and remain positive about developing this game further.
   
April 3, 2016
~~~~~~~~~~~~~
@2:30pm Pace2
   I added in code when you place a line down to check for the teleport and not draw a line over top of it.  I realized that I could save myself trouble in the future by simply adding in a flag for each tile which indicates if a line can be placed there.  Basically a protection flag that protects anything like lines from being drawn onto it.  This would make it easier in t he future to add on new things because there would only need to be one check for this flag rather than having to add in new code every time I add something.  I would just set anything new so this flag is set and problem solved.  I'll probably add it before I release the next version to avoid having too many new map file versions.  This way I will have one new version in the next release that will have teleports and the new tile flag.  And I can reduce my code NOW.  This flag only applies to the editor, so old levels could still be used in the game itself.  I would simply alter the level loading code in the editor so it adjust's older levels so they have this flag as they are loaded, and of course, they will be saved with it.  The main game doesn't need this flag so it could safely ignore it.
   I may end up writing a simple level conversion tool like I used to have on DP1 that could convert old levels to the new format, perhaps scan a folder for all levels and convert them all at once if they are old.  I could then update this tool to convert to newer formats instead of adding in a pile of code to the game to handle every version.  We'll see.  I do love the idea of this flag though.  I am thinking of just calling it "protected" so the level tile check could be something like if(level->map[y][x].protected).  I'll have to add in code to check for the map version, if it is a newer version, I will need to load this flag anyhow, if it is not, I need to skip loading this flag in.
@4:43pm
   The pillfill function now uses this and will not replace any of the spawns.  Also the remove tile function now sets the is_protected flag back to false.  When levels are loaded old levels set the protected flag based on where spawns are.  The save function saves all the new level data properly.  I noticed I forgot to add in code to load teleport data, that could have been really bad had I loaded a new level.  Added that in, as well as the protected flag check.  I also commented out code that doesn't allow pills and spawns on the border, they are now allowed.  I don't know why I ever didn't allow them, perhaps I will find out. ;)
   I need to add in code to validate isolated teleports still.  I also need to add in code to set the is_protected flag as spawns are placed.
@10:42pm v16.04.03 (2240)
   I just got done working on the main game itself.  I added in the protected flag to the editor and it worked fine, now in the future this will save me recoding, if I add in a new feature similar to a spawn, than all I will need to do is set the protected flag and I won't need to add in a bunch of new code to check for the item when drawing lines or using pillfill, as code to check the protected flag is already in place.  I was able to remove a BUNCH of code because of this and I only neede ONE LINE OF CODE instead of like, 20 or more!
   The main game has the teleport in place.  There was an unforeseen problem, when you teleported it would detect you on the new teleport and teleport you back and forth like crazy! LOL... so, I added in a flag to indicate that you just teleported, the flag remains true until you are no longer on any of the teleports, so you will not teleport until you step off the pad and Scotty clears you to use it again. ;)  Once it detects you are no longer on either of the teleport pads, then it resets the flag to false and you can use it again.  I added in a nice new sound effect for it, and I also created a new graphic for the pickup spawn.  I was going to use the ghost spawn graphic with a different colour, but I didn't like that at all, it felt lazy, probably because it was, plus I didn't like it looking so similar, it could be confusing, plus I feel it should look unique.  The graphic I came up with looks nice, almost looks like a teleporter itself, but also sort of like a holographic projector, which is kind of kewl I think.  I also changed the code so you can have spawns (player, ghost, pick and teleports) on the border, basically anywhere you like (within reason).  This way if you use the cursor keys to shift the level around and a spawn ends up on a border, you won't have to redesign your level, moving it somewhere else etc, which was my main reason for allowing this now.  I needed to recode some stuff in the main game as ghosts got stuck on the border sometimes when they spawned, but I got that fixed.  Anyhow, I am quite pleased with the changes.  I just need to fix a problem with setting the player spawn on the border.  if you do, and you do not have a matching wrap around on the other side, the validation doesn't flag this as an error!  This is due to how the validation checks paths etc... it starts checking a path from the player spawn so you can probably guess how this might cause a problem.  I'll fix it later anyhow.
   
April 4, 2016
~~~~~~~~~~~~~
@4:56pm Pace2
   Started work on fixing the error with validating the player start when it is on the border.  But first I noticed that I was still using sprintf() in my code, so I quickly switched it so it uses snprinf() as that is much safer.  It is only used in the validate function and message is always 256 bytes long, so it was pretty simple but much safer to prevent buffer overflows (printing more than 256 into message would overflow into surrounding memory, something that many viruses have used to spread).  A quick look at the validate function doesn't reveal to me what the problem is.  I suspect it has to do with a value I set the tile with when the player start is placed that is effecting it, so I will probably go look at what happens when I place the player start.  I suspect that I forgot to clear the tile, or set the tile number to something other than -1 (not on the path) or 999 (a line which blocks movement) etc.  I'm going to also run the game, first clear the line THEN place the player start and see if that makes a difference, that will tell me what the problem is.
@5:32pm
   I figured out the validation problem.  The problem was that I was checking the path_node which contains all the tiles where pacman and ghosts can access.  This is used by the ghosts to determine the shortest route to get to the player, but it is also used to determine if any tiles are isolated and if any are lines.  So when the game checks for wrap errors during the validation process, it started scanning the path nodes from 1 on up.  The player start is zero!  So it never checked it.  This was okay before and the reason why I skipped the player start is because the player start was not allowed to be on  the border, so it would never be an issue.  But now I allow the player start to be on the border, so I needed to include it.  Fixed now anyhow.
   When drawing lines using the editor, you can now use the cursor keys to shift the level around.  I especially like to use this to connect lines on the borders with the lines on the opposite sides, I then move the level back to where it was and it appears like they may be connected.  The problem is on the top and left border, you can see where the shadow of the connecting line stops, so I want to add in new code which draws the shadow of the line from the right side to just off screen on the left side so the shadow shows and connects so you don't see a break (unless one actually exists of course), the same for the top row, it will copy the bottom row (just the shadow part) to just off the top so it shows through and gives the illusion of opposite sides connected.  I hope this works anyhow, time will tell.
   I also updated the manual, added keys and extra info about the level editor.
@7:00pm
   I added code to the game that copies shadows, but ONLY from tiles that appear to connect on wrap.  But this can cause a problem if you have a connecting tile say, on the bottom, that goes DOWN, but you erase the tile that it should connect to at the top, the bottom is not effected and you end up with part of the shadow showing from the larger brick tiles when it should not.  So the solution is that when you erase a border tile, it should adjust the opposite side tile so any connections are also erased.  This will prevent any problems with shadows showing when they should not.  So far I like the effect though, only certain tile types have this problem, the larger ones.
@7:49pm v16.04.04 (1949)
   I fixed a minor bug with the freeze tool.  If all the ghosts were "dead" (just eyes) so that none of them can be frozen, than the timer for the tool doesn't activate.  You just hear the freeze sound with no more to it.  I also added in code so that when there are no more frozen ghosts, the FREEZE tool is reset to off so the timer stops.
@8:12pm v16.04.04 (2012)
   I done a quick check for sprintf() and replaced all instances to snprinf() which is safer.  I am pleased to say I only had ONE sprintf() in my code, I had already replaced them all in the past.  I guess I only missed the ones in the level editor.  I was expecting to go through a lot of code.  It's nice to see I thought ahead a little bit.  Saved me work now.  It's a good lesson, do things the safe, proper way and you will save yourself work and headache later on.
@11:00pm v16.04.04 (2300)
   I added in the CREDITS screen, I also added an enum to the main menu function so in the future, if I change anything, it will be much easier to add things in.  Fixed numbers are bad! ;)  Wanda wanted her friend Kathy's picture in the credits, so it is there now.  Suckholes. ;)  I do think I am done this for now!  I had a TODO list and I managed to get it all done! WOW.
   
April 5, 2016
~~~~~~~~~~~~~
@1:08pm
   I decided to work on adding in custom line set support for the game.  This is something I had actually originally planned for the game.  I thought about different ways to implement this, one was to just allow the person to load in any line set with any file name for a level, then store the filename into the level.  This is doable but I don't think it is entirely nessecary, it would also require that I add on a new button to an already crowded level editor interface to load a custom line set etc.  What I finally decided on which would be the simplest to do, without needing more buttons or bloating the size of the levels with custom filename (which could be any size for a filename!), was to instead do this like I do custom levels!  That is that you make new line sets that are numbered 00 to 19 which would replace the built in ones, or number them 20 to 99 to add on new line sets.  Then the game and the editor would simply scan for line sets like the game does for levels, and then use whatever is available at that time and the line set ## will be stored as it always has in the level with no extra data needed in the actual level to bloat it even larger.  If the game doesn't find a custom line set when a level is loaded, it will default to line set #00. I also decided that with all the custom levels and custom lines possible, I am going to have the game create a "Custom" folder if one doesn't already exist (much like I do with screenshots) and all Custom made levels and line graphics will be stored in there, which keeps everything a little more organized.  I may add in a "Levels" folder inside the PAK file as well.
@5:23pm
   I added a Levels folder to the pak file, just to organize things better.  I also added a "Custom" folder to the level editor so it looks for levels to load and save to there now.  It will also check for how many Line##.png graphics there are in the pak file, from 0 to 99, then it will check in the Custom folder for Line##.png files which are higher than the ones in the pak, so if the pak file has 0 to 19, which is the default, than it will check for 20 to 99 in Custom and use them in the editor and save them as the line set used with the level.  The editor and the game will NOT look for line set numbers that match the ones already used in the PAK file, if someone wishes to replace those, they will need to replace the ones inside the PAK file directly.  I could program the game to allow for it, but it is just too much of a pain to do, well, maybe not, but more than I honestly feel like doing at this time.  Besides, I think 100 line sets is MORE than enough, only 20 are used by the game by default, that leaves 80 people can use themselves.
   I am now about to load up the main game code (it is seperate from the editor, something I just may change someday) so it will load in custom lines and scan the pak file for how many exist.  I really should have done this from the start as hard coding how many there are is always a bad idea.  It's a lesson learned for future projects anyhow.  Planning ahead and doing it right is ALWAYS a good idea!
@7:10pm 
   I added the ability to the game to load it custom line sets.  While programming this in, I realized it would be fairly easy to allow custom line sets which replace the original sets, just like the levels can replace the originals as well, so I programmed and tested it and it worked.  So Now I need to go to the editor and change it so it can do the same thing.
@7:30pm v16.04.05 (1928)
   Game and editor finished, now custom line sets are 100% doable.
   
April 7, 2016
~~~~~~~~~~~~~
@2:53am
   I just noticed while testing the game out with some improved pill graphics that Bruce Yurth worked on.  That when I went to use the cursor keys to move down the menu it crashed!  Normally I tend to use the mouse on the main menu so I never noticed this until today.  I recently added in the CREDITS menu, so that probably is where the bug came in.  I probably forgot to adjust the keyboard input code somehow.  I'll be sure to fix that tomorrow.  I just wanted to make a note of that in here to remind myself.  I'll also add in the ability to load in a PNG image for the start of each level.  What I will do is just look to see if a PNG exists for each level, name it Level###.png, fairly simple.  If the image doesn't exist, it simply will not load and display anything, but play normally.  This way an image is not needed for each level.  There could also be a default image that displays, I'll have to give this some thought.  I will also add in the timer Bruce requested.  I'll just make it a basic timer, but I don't add in code at this time to save best times or anything, that would be a lot more work.  Maybe in the future if I feel so inclined.
@3:44am
   I fixed the main menu bug.  It was due to the fact that I started using enums for the menu items, but for some odd reason you cannot test if an enum is lower than the lowest value they support, so I had to create a new enum called NONE and set it's value to -1.  This way the enums go { NONE = -1, PLAY ... QUIT }, PLAY will be equal to zero as before, but now there will be NONE before play, I can then test if the current selection is less than PLAY, I guess enums need an actual entry before PLAY to test that.  You learn something new every day.  The enums are still a good idea as when I check buttons, I don't have a fixed button number to check, but rather when I check to see if the current button selected is something like QUIT, rather than testing the button number 7, which is what QUIT is currently, I just check for QUIT.  The QUIT button used to be #6, so changing it meant going through all the mouse code, the keyboard code and the joystick code etc... adjusting minimum and maximum values, a royal pain!  NOW I check if the menu selection is lower than PLAY, which is ALWAYS the first one, only NONE is lower, if it is, that means NONE is selected (which doesn't exist as a button) so we must be wrapping around, so we set the selection to QUIT which is always the last menu entry!  No numbers needed, that are evaluated in  the enum!   NOW, this becomes REALLY nice if I decide to add a new button!  lets say I decide to add an ABOUT button, I can simply add a new enum named ABOUT in the middle of the menu, anywhere I please between PLAY and QUIT, add in the ABOUT function and selection entries, no need to think about the number anymore, just use t he enum ABOUT and I am finished!  The enum will adjust the numbers on it's own!  VERY time saving!
@10:38pm v16.04.07 (2235)
   I went over some of the images, like the title screen, the menu background screens and ran them through the PNGOUT optimizer and really managed to reduce their size, while maintaining the quality.  
   I got the feature added Bruce wanted to add in images that each level can have, so I done up some basic functionality where it loads an image from the same location as the level, with the same filename as the level, only a PNG extension, so level 1, would be "level001.png".  The image can be up to 800x600, but it can be smaller and it will be centred on the screen.  The images could actually be larger than 800x600, but they would go off the screen.
   I was going to add the timer in, but I honestly just want to get this version out there sometime this century and then give programming it a break.  I will probably add something more in at a later date, I need a break from this game.
   
April 15, 2016
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
@10:27pm v16.04.15 (2155)
   There were some bugs Bruce Yurth reported to me where the game wouldn't load custom levels, which is really strange as it used to work.  I reverted back to old code that used to work, tested it AGAIN... it worked this time, so I altered it a little to use the new folders and so far, so good.  I also noticed some problems with the way I was doing it where the game would only end up checking for new levels starting at the next highest level than what was in the PAK file!  So if you made a level 1, it would not be loaded, or counted or... I don't know... LOL... I must have been tired when I coded it the first time or something.
   Anyhow, I recoded it so it checks the levels inside the pak file, records those, then it resets the level variable and rechecks for custom levels starting at 1 instead of the next highest!  If it doesn't find one, and the level counter is lower than the total number of pakfile levels, than it continues to scan.  It will not end scanning unless it goes beyond the number of pak file levels and there are no custom levels, because the game HAS to have levels in sequential order.
   It then reports on  the Loading screen, the total number of custom levels found, the levels found in the pakfile and the highest level ###.
   I also changed the code to load the custom level images.  I noticed I done that wrong, and that if the game loaded a level from  the pak file, it would ONLY look in the pak file for the level###.png file!  So I made it check for a custom image file first and I adjusted the image loading function so it returns a boolean as to whether it found an image, if it doesn't find a custom one, then it will check for a pakfile image then continue on, so this way you can create custom images for any level, even levels in the game pak.
@10:39pm
   Oops, I needed to adjust the levels found -1 or it would report too many levels.
@10:50pm
   Oops x 2, that didn't help either as if you have custom levels, it reports too few! LOL... so I added in new code so that IF the game finds no custom levels AT ALL, than it sets the levels found to the number in the pakfile, otherwise it leaves the number found alone as it will point to the highest custom level number in the game.  This is very important to get right as the game's JUMP tool uses this variable to randomly jump to a new level, and you can't have it with 1 more level than actually exists! ;)
   
May 14, 2016
~~~~~~~~~~~~
@3:43pm
   I watched some videos on Youtube on using Audacity, which is the free software I use to edit my sound effects, and learned a bit more about using it.  I got the idea to examine sound effects I have hear in other games to get some idea how they were edited as some of them sounded really nice and I noticed they had great stereo separation.  Well, after examining a few I noticed a trick that was used which really improved the feeling of stereo separation.  It's hard to put into words.  I also wanted to edit a few effects, most of which were all MONO sounds, no stereo (except the music), so  that the sound appears to move between one speaker to the other and back.  Some rapidly back and forth, some gradual, depending on the effect.  The powerpill effect rapidly goes back and forth between the left and right speakers to good effect.  What I did for it was I took the mono sample, then duplicated it and created a left and right stereo track.  I then alternated the volume levels so one side was louder than the other and so would give the desired effect.  For other samples, where I wanted just a greater... stereo separation, I found that duplicating the mono track into a left and right stereo pair.  Then taking the right track and offsetting it just a little created a really good effect.  You can't really hear how it is offset as I didn't move it too much, but what I think happens is that our brains are designed by God in such a way so that it senses the difference in sound from right and left and when there is a minor difference, it causes us to perceive it differently.  In any case, it worked well.
   After some testing, I found some sound effects were better left as MONO... and that is things like PILLS, and Ghost sounds when you eat them, they say "ouch" etc... those sounds come from a specific area of the screen and it is important that the player hears the sound as if it is "coming" out of a specific spot on the screen.  In the game, when you eat a pill, the game calculates roughly where on screen from left to right the sound comes from and adjusts the volume on the right and left speakers so it sounds like it is coming from that general area of the screen.  This is more difficult if the sound effect is stereo to start with, so I left them mono.  I adjusted some of the volume levels as some seemed kind of low.  After testing the game out again, it seems much better.  Some sound effects, like eating a powerpill have stereo effects as they effect the entire screen, and with the teleport, you travel from one point to another, so I have a nice stereo effect that goes from one speaker to the other suddenly, which sort of reflects the idea of transporting from one point to another.
@5:08pm v16.05.14 (1718)
   I created a new HELP screen which explains what the Energy Bar is for and how the energy is gained and used.  Someone on my Facebook page had suggested that I do that as they did not know what it was for, and as we all know, NOBODY reads the manual... heaven forbid! ;)  Anyhow, it was a good idea and I like how it looks.  I used PNGOUT, which is a nice little addon for IrfanView created by Ken Silverman, the creator of the Build Engine which so many games were made using (like Duke Nukem 3D).  It does a fantastic job in reducing the size of PNG images, often reducing them in size by almost half.  I ran this on all my non-transparent images.  The one thing that I find IrfanView does a horrible job on, and that is resaving transparent PNGs which have alpha channels.  It has you pick a colour to make transparent, which is horrible.  It should simply preserve the original alpha so... I avoid resaving any PNG images with transparency with Irfanview.
   Anyhow, there are now 5 help screens, so I adjusted the code accordingly, added in a constant for the number of screens as I had a magic number in there rather than a constant, which is never a smart thing.  Constants help you remember what the value is for as well as make it easy to change it without editing a pile of code.
   I tried compiling this with the newest version of Allegro 5.2.0, but the distribution (which is created by someone else) has errors, so I'll stick with 5.1.13 for now, maybe update the game in the future.
   
May 15, 2016
~~~~~~~~~~~~
@12:05am v16.05.15 (0001)
   I reprogrammed the game a little so that it no longer displays the intro sequence and title screen more than once, but instead jumps straight back to the main menu.  The reason why I didn't do this before was because the intro music which plays during the title screen starts in that function, so I redone the intro and title in order to restart the music, but that was silly, all I needed to do was add in a new command to restart the music up again at the end of the main loop (provided the game wasn't exiting and that music is enabled).  I don't know WHY I did think of that before!  I feel stupid.
   I also tried out a new build of Allegro 5.2.0 that Edgar made with some suggested fixes he mentioned, but it still bugged out and crashed, so I reverted back to 5.1.13 which works fine.  I appreciate the work Edgar does to build the library for me, it is a royal pain to get all the pieces together to compile that sucker, which is why I don't do it anymore.  Allegro 4 was far easier to compile, but it wasn't as good as Allegro 5 either so... ah well.  I am sure he'll track down the problem.
   Anyhow, now I just want to add in a separate tool sound effect which I had always planned to have but forgot to implement.  I have actually had the sound effect inside the datafile for a while now, I just forgot about it.  I'll add in some code and see if I can work at getting that going before I release the next version.
@1:04am
   I inadvertently changed the "type.ogg" sound sample.  It is used not only for the typing sound when you are typing in your name in the high scrore listing, but it is also used as the tool timer ticking sound.  Well, when I improved the sounds the other day, I noticed there was this long silence at the end of the type.ogg sound, so naturally I deleted the silence.  What I forgot was that I purposely put that silence on there in order to be able to loop the sound for the tool timer, and the silence allowed it to be timed nicely, otherwise it goes too fast.  So, I reloaded an older version of it and re-edited so now it has the silence back on the end and sounds great.
   
   
June 24, 2016
~~~~~~~~~~~~~
@8:10pm v16.06.24 (2001)
   I recompiled the game to work with Allegro v5.2.1.  Many thanks go out to "Edgar" Reynaldo for building the new version of Allegro for me and putting up with my problems I had.  Great guy (and patient). ;)
   This may or may not fix problems anyone is having, I know of none to be honest, but each version improves upon something so... always worth rebuilding.
   I initially had some problems with this build and I thought it was the libarary itself, but I was wrong.  I had an older version of the library installed in my MinGW_Dev folder which is a new spot I now put libraries, but I forgot about that as I haven't done much with this lately and I put the new version in the main MinGW itself.  When I compiled the game, it picked up the older header files in the Dev folder which caused problems.  Hopefully I'll remember this next time.  Stupid mistake, and easily avoided, but then the worst headaches usually are simple problems.
   
August 3, 2016
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
@5:53pm v16.09.03 (1745)
   I recompiled the game with Allegro v5.2.1.1.  I am also now using MinGW v5.3.0, up from v4.8.1, which is nice!  Edgar Reynaldo done a lot of work compiling this and putting together a package I could use.  Trent Gamblin and many others done a lot of work fixing some errors in the Allegro library I found.  Much appreaciation goes out to those guys who do this on their free time.  God bless them.
   
March 16, 2017
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
@11:57pm v17.03.16 (2221)
   I recompiled the game with Allegro v5.2.2 (even though it is reporting 5.2.3).  I also updated MinGW to a version Edgar supplied as usual, still v5.3.0, but one he updated somehow.  Many thanks goes out to him for all his efforts!  I recompiled the game (with Code::Blocks 16.01) as usual and all went well.  I made some minor changes, I moved the VERSION macro to dp2_main.c and changed it to a const char*.  I also took the copyright text and made it into a const char *COPYRIGHT so it can be more easily changed in the future.  Both const declarations are in the main c file as they are not needed anywhere else.  A note about the COPYRIGHT constant, to insert the © (copyright) symbol into the text, rather than typing it out directly, which would be fine for now, but could get messed up later if something changes, I instead used a unicode... thingee... I forget what you call it, LOL... so instead of "Copyright ©2017 by Neil Roy" the string now reads "Copyright \u00A92017 by Neil Roy", the \u00A9 is unicode for the copyright symbol.  And there are a few other minor changes, I deleted a couple stray // I no longer needed. :)
   
March 23, 2017
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
@10:46pm v17.03.23 (2241)
   After doing a clean rebuild, Allegro 5.2.2 gave me problems loading in TTF.  I checked to see if there was something I had changed that was causing the problem, but nothing fixed it.  I recompiled using Allegro 5.2.1 and it ran fine, loaded in TTF just fine, so it must be with the new build.  I'll have to wait and see if Edgar can find the problem with his latest build.  I appreciate his efforts a great deal.
@11:04pm Pace
   I checked the PACE (level editor) compiler settings and changed them so they matched the game's then recompiled it so it matches the game perfectly.
   
April 24, 2017
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
@2:30am v17.04.24 (0228)
   I redone all the audio and music files.  I originally saved them with the maximum quality setting OGG Vorbis, which is 10.  I really didn't understand the quality differences at the time.  I later realized you don't need anywhere NEAR that.  On average, a setting of 5 will due.  For my game, most of my sound effects were done with much lower quality (none higher is needed for what they are) so I was able to reduce the quality setting down to 2, which still ended up storing the sound effects at a slightly better quality than they were at originally (88KHz for most up to 90Khz roughly, it varies).  There is no noticable quality difference at all in how they sound but WOW are they smaller files!!!  The music files dropped from over 4 megs down to under 1!  All the sound effects were similar.  In the end, the .PAK file dropped from around 12Megs down to 6Megs, half the size.  I am also thinking that this could possibly increase the smooth running of the game if it doesn't have to play at a higher quality setting.  Plus the sound files will use far less memory which could help some people.
   I am playing with the idea of a Deluxe Pacman - Remastered edition and the music files, which are OGGs on this game are the largest files.  Well, on my new project, which now uses SDL2 supports the original Amiga MOD music files which is what the music was originally, so that is even greater space savings as the MOD files are one tenth the size of the smallest OGGs with no quality reduction at all!  If only I could do that with this game and Allegro, but I am in no mood to fiddle with this library any longer.  It was great while it lasted.
   
May 7, 2017
~~~~~~~~~~~
@7:33pm v17.05.07 (1925)
   Edgar Reynaldo over at Allegro.cc managed to figure out what the big was in Allegro 5.2.3, so many thanks to him for that.  He has far more patience than I ever will.  He recompiled it and let me know it was working, so I recompiled the game with it and sure enough, the bug was gone.  I decided that I would create 10 more levels for the game before I released a new version.  This version will be MUCH smaller (roughly half the size) due to the quality adjustment in the OGG sound files.  They still sound as good as ever, only far smaller.  Hopefully this will be the last time I do anything with this version.  It would be nice to leave it like this, with a newer more stable version of the library, more levels and a smaller size.  About the only thing I will probably do is to make more levels for it in the future.  I figure, if I get some donations that are decent enough, than I will, it's the least I can do to show my appreciation.  Meanwhile I will still see if I can continue with my new project, though I am still uncertain about it's future.  Time will tell.
   
June 14, 2017
~~~~~~~~~~~~~
@1:49am v17.06.14 (0144)
   Edgar Reynaldo came through again.  He updated the Allegro 5 library with a new build and most importantly, a much more recent version of the GNU MinGW compiler, v7.1.0.  There were some hiccups with this build, he made a minor mistake with it, I helped him find the problem and he was kind enough to rebuild a working version.  I recompiled the game and it works smoothly, so a lot of credit goes out to him and all the others that work on the actual programming of the library over at Allegro.cc.  I may work on creating some more levels and then release a newer version so there is something more than just a new compile.  It will encourage people to download the newer version.  I may even take a second look at the joystick code and see if I can get it working.  Maybe work on a different method to handle it?  It would be nice to get it working 100%.
   
July 14, 2017
~~~~~~~~~~~~~
@2:01pm v17.07.14 (1401)
   I was chatting with people over at the Allegro.cc forums when Eric Johnson tried out my game and noticed a bug in it; I have since banned him from playing the game ;).  When you set suicide mode on from options and play the game, if you decide to turn it back off, it won't turn off.  I looked through my code and I noted that I set the suicide variable, but I don't see where I actually changed the timer speed to toggle the speed.  It gets set properly, and obviously it gets turned on, but doesn't get turned off.  My thoughts are that I probably changed the speed if it was enabled, but forgot to change it back if it was disabled.  I am not sure exactly where I do this (been a while since I worked on this part) so I just hacked in some code for now that will check if the settings.suicide flag is off, and reset all the speeds to their defaults before starting the level.  I tested the game and that fixed it.  This will be fine to leave as is, but I still may hunt down where I originally handle this stuff and do a proper recoding, and maybe even re-organizing of my code to better track these things.  This shows me that one can NEVER be too organized with their code.  It pays off down the road!  Also, heavy commenting as well.  What you understand NOW, I guarantee you will forget why you did it in the future, so keep logs like this and comment your code and you will thank yourself later on.  Anyhow, a big thanks to Eric for catching this, I never would have as I don't use suicide mode ever, it was added at someone else's request.
   I also created 5 more levels, raising the total up to 45.  I was going to do 50, but honestly, I'm just not that creative.  LOL... it takes me longer to create new levels than it does to program! ;)
   
February 18, 2018
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
@4:01pm v18.02.18 (1554)
   Minor update.  I needed to change the WEBSITE button so it points to a valid website since my main site was shut down by my rotten ISP without notice.  It now points to the game's Facebook page.  You can contact me there, I generally respond pretty quick, I post updates there first and there's a donate button I KNOW you want to use! ;)
   I also created 5 more levels to bring the total up to 50.  I play tested them to be certain they can be completed.
   
February 28, 2018
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
@1:12am v18.02.28 (0006)
   Another minor update.  A new version of Allegro v5.2.4 was released, so I decided to test it out with this game.  I notice a minor problem where I forgot to update the total number of levels included in the PAK file.  It didn't cause problems, but I corrected the error just to be safe.  The game autodetects the levels in a pak file now, the fixed number in the main header was mainly for other reasons currently disabled.  But better safe than sorry.
   I ran into some minor problems with this update as it uses a newer version of the libpng library which is more strict with PNG headers and certain graphic software includes certain information when it saves PNGs which should not be in them.  It doesn't cause a problem, but the new version of the library is more strict with these things, so I scanned all my PNG files and removed the faulty headers with special software.  It's no big deal really, but it bothers me as I get warnings when I run the debug version and I hate warnings, even harmless ones! ;)
   Anyhow, game runs.  I'll upload a new version to my dropbox.  Incidentally, as of the last version I name the ZIP file DeluxePacman2.zip for my uploads, it no longer contains the version number in the filename as that is a pain to have to go all over the place and update all my links.  So for now I will leave it as is so I don't have to update them.  Maybe in the future I will get a proper website, I don't know.  It seems like such a headache these days, everyone thinks you have bags of money to spend on all this shit and nobody wants to donate any money to help with this, so I'll most likely leave it as is.  I mean, seriously, there has been several MILLIONS of downloads of this game, and yet I can count on my hands how many people have donated.  The number is LITERALLY one in a million donate, that's not even a figure of speach!  IF I make another game, it won't be free.  Even a $2 per game fee would be better than zero.  But I digress.  I don't even know why I am still updating it now.  I don't mean to sound greedy, miserable or ungrateful.  It was fun to create this game and even update it for a while, but after 20 years, the fun is gone and it is a chore to do.  I still get requests for new features and even whole new games based on this.  But unless I get suddenly feel like working on it for my own reasons, which I do not, I quite simply won't.
   
March 2, 2018
~~~~~~~~~~~~~
@4:38pm v18.03.02 (1636)
   Not much of an update.  I finally compiled Allegro MYSELF successfully, so I recompiled it as C 2011 using the -std=gnu11 switch so it has the gnu extensions.  I also compiled the release version so it has no debug information in it as whomever compiled it before had a release version with debug info and that makes it much larger than is needed.  So I am quite happy with this, it should make my game even smaller than before and the Allegro library is 100% compatible with what I am compiling with.  I tested it out and it works fine, so now I will create the setup executable and compare the size of it with the old one.
   
March 11, 2018
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
@11:17pm v18.03.11 (2310)
   I made a minor improvement to the collision function.  I use a circle collision detection and I was using a sqrt() in my calculation when I didn't have to.  Using sqrt() is an expensive calculation so if I can avoid it, I will.  I doubt it will make much of a noticable difference, but it all adds up.
   
March 21, 2018
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
@4:23pm v18.03.21 (1441)
   I re-enabled joystick support.  The old version of the library had a bug in it.  I am hoping this version has it fixed.  I played several levels for over an hour with no problems.  Well, except that I can't stand using a joystick, otherwise it seems to work okay.  Sometimes you may miss a turn using it, I think this is either A) due to the event driven nature of this library or B) I suck at using joysticks!  Either way, I figured it was better to have it enabled as is than not at all.  I still recommend using the keyboard.  If you must use the joystick, use the analog stick controls rather than the digital, I find they work better.